                  AMIGA MODPLAYER FOR THE MSX TURBO-R
                       (C) 1992/1993 BY XELASOFT
                             A SHORT MANUAL

With modplay, you can play amiga mod files on the MSX Turbo-r. Modplay
works properly under DOS 1 and DOS 2. It uses memman version 2.0 or higher
for a good memory management.

The usage of modplay is quite simple:
-Install memman.
-Make sure there is enough free memory (by working under DOS 1, giving the
 DOS 2 ramdisk a minimum size or by buying a memory extension).
-Start modplay by typing in MP under DOS.
-After this procedure, modplay will automatically search for all the .MOD
 files in the current directory. These will be displayed in a box on the
 screen and you can walk trough it with the cursor keys. The selected .MOD
 file can be loaded by pressing on the space bar or on the return key.
 When you want to search in another directory, you can do this by pressing
 on the F1 key. After this you will get a type cursor at the top of the screen,
 behind the text 'Name:'. At this place you can type in the searchpath (even-
 tually with wildcards to specify some special mod files).
 Example: to find all the mod files that start with AL in the directory
     B:\MUSIC\MODS you can type in:
     b:\music\mods\al*
 As you can see in this example, you don't have to give up an extension. It
 also doesn't matter whether you use capitals or literals.
You can leave modplay by pressing on the F1 key in the name input part. So you
must press on the F1 key twice to leave modplay from the file selection box.

It is also possible to give up a searchpath at the moment you start up modplay,
this can be done in 2 manners:
1) Type in the searchpath immediately behind MP. To search for all the mod
   files starting with AL in the directory b:\music\mods you could start
   modplay with:
   MP b:\music\mods\al*

2) This only works in DOS 2 and is especially meant for the harddisk owners:
   Make the environment item MP_DIR and put the right searchpath inside of it.
   To stay with the example, a good method to give up a standard searchpath
   would be:
   set mp_dir = b:\music\mods\al*
   If you now startup modplay with MP (without typing anything behind it), the
   directory which has been put in mp_dir will be scanned automatically for
   the mod files.

If you put the name of exactly 1 mod file in the searchpath, then modplay
will load this mod file automatically and you don't have to select anything
further in the file selection box.

Modplay displays in the startup procedure always some status information on
the screen and after this it waits for a key press. To continue automatically
width the loading part, without having to press on a key first, you can give
up the optional parameter /A.
Example: to load the modfile b:\music\mods\axelf automatically, you can type in
  under dos:
    mp b:\music\mods\axelf /a
  After this, modplay will automatically load axelf without waiting first for
  a keypress after displaying the status information.



                            I wish you many listening pleasure with modplay
                                              XelaSoft




Ps: modplay is NO public domain.
