

 ILLUSION CITY - THE STORY
 PART 1

 DARK AWAKENING....

 RADIO MESSAGE OF SIVA TRANSPORT SHUTTLE TO SIVA MAIN OFFICE:

 "SIVA  Shuttle  to base: we're on our way to the SIVA-summit 
 in Hongkong. We've had a short delay because of the terrible 
 weather conditions. The storm, that has been hanging over 
 Hongkong for weeks now, is still raging. The vision up here 
 is limited, very dense clouds. Severe squalls, down-pour and 
 lightning makes this very dangerous flying weather. But I 
 think we'll manage to make it through. We're preparing to 
 land. Shuttle over and out."


 SIVA-NETWORK

 HISTORICAL ARCHIVE
 SUBJECT: GREAT DISASTER OF HONGKONG, THE
 RATING:PUBLIC

 In 200X, Hongkong was struck by one of the greatest 
 catastrophes in human history. By an unknown cause, the 
 earth's crust under this city collapsed, and a great part of 
 the city subsided, tens of metres down. The number of 
 casualties and material damage were gigantic. The Chinese 
 government contacted SIVA to restore the chaos the city had 
 become and to find out what had caused the disaster.

 In the next twenty years, SIVA managed to rebuild the city 
 in a remarkable way. An artificial foundation plate was 
 constructed, that would serve as a foundation for the new 
 Hong Kong, that was built on top of the old city.

 Nowadays, it has become clear, that Hongkongs restoration 
 has been a complete succes. The city is SIVA's capital 
 facility heart, and the majority of the citizens has
 become a SIVA  employee or works for one of SIVA's
 subsidiary companies.  Hongkong has become a
 technological paradise, in which all citizens can live a
 prosperous and happy life.

 For more info, see HONGKONG and SIVA.

 END OF FILE
 ===========


 SIVA-NETWORK

 DATABASE
 SUBJECT: SIVA
 RATING: PUBLIC

 SIVA is the largest information/communication agency in the 
 world. The company has gone through a remarkable growth after 
 the Great Disaster of Hongkong, after which a number of new 
 top-executives were appointed. Before the employment of the 
 supercomputer that would run the information network, the 
 company was called IVA. SIVA's nervous system is the world 
 wide SIVA-network, a public data-network in which a vast
 multitude of information can be found, current information 
 as well as human history. SIVA's heart is "Siva Tower", the 
 Network Centre, in which the SIVA-supercomputer that hosts 
 the network, is seated. Both SIVA-Tower and the SIVA main 
 office are in Hongkong's centre.

 Other SIVA industries are:
 weapon- and steelmanufacturing, biological and chemical 
 research and genetic engineering.

 END OF FILE
 ===========


 SIVA-NETWORK

 DATABANK
 SUBJECT: DEMON-RELIGION
 RATING: PUBLIC

 This group has grown rapidly from an unimportant religious 
 cult into one of the city's most important religions. It is 
 regarded as a good omen in Hongkong, and the number of 
 followers is still growing every day. Frequently, meetings 
 are organized in the temples that have been built throughout 
 the entire city. A remarkable fact is, that this young 
 religious group is based on sacred writing that are 
 thousands of years old.

 To respect the independance of the demon-religion, SIVA will 
 not provide any further information about this subject here. 
 For more info, apply to your local demon-temple.

 END OF FILE
 ===========


 SIVA-NETWORK

 DATABANK
 SUBJECT: D.I.V.E.R.
 RATING: PUBLIC

 De position of "DIVER" (Demon Intercept Vital  Erase  Runner)
 was established after the Great Disaster of Hongkong. After  
 this event, the Outer, the formerly distressed area, now the 
 residential area for Hongkong's factory workers, was 
 increasingly threatened by mysterious, as yet unknown 
 beings. These "monsters" are hostile towards humans, and 
 many of them feed on human blood. They formed an increasing 
 danger for the Outer-population (strangely enough, these 
 creatures stayed away from the Inner, the rebuilt Hongkong 
 on the surface. Here, the Blackblades, the SIVA police force, 
 maintain public peace and order) Because this problems went 
 beyond the abilities of the Inner Police, citizes were 
 appealed to.

 To citizens with extraordinary physical and mental 
 capabilities, a special police-training was given, thus 
 forming a small team that could hunt monsters in the Outer 
 to protect the citizens. The project was quite succesful. 
 The Diver-system utilizes a computer-controlled 
 bounty-payment system, which works fast and accurate.

 END OF FILE
 ===========


 SIVA-NETWORK

 CITIZEN INFO  
 SUBJECT: PERSONAL FILE TIENLLEN
 RATING: CONFIDENTIAL

 NAME          : TIENLLEN (FULL NAME UNKNOWN)
 GENDER        : MALE
 OCCUPATION    : DIVER
 RESIDENCE     : OUTER, DOWNTOWN
 DATE OF BIRTH : UNKNOWN 
 
 Nothing is known about Tienllen's origin.He was raised in the 
 Outer by Shue Wang, who also trained him. Developed 
 considerable psychic powers at a young age and learned how 
 to handle weapons excellently. Small arms are his specialty.
 At the moment, he's one of the best Divers in the team.

 END OF FILE  
 ===========


 SIVA-NETWORK

 CITIZEN INFO
 SUBJECT : PERSONAL FILE MEIPHEN
 RATING: CONFIDENTIAL 

 NAME          : MEIPHEN (FULL NAME UNKNOWN)
 GENDER        : FEMALE    
 OCCUPATION    : COMMANDER OUTER-POLICE FORCE
 RESIDENCE     : OUTER,DOWNTOWN
 DATE OF BIRTH : UNKNOWN 

 Just like Tienllen, Meiphen has unknown natural parents. She 
 was also raised by Shue. Tienllen was like a brother to her. 
 Developed great skill in martial arts and her specialty is 
 the "Deathlash", a kind of thin, metal whip. She also 
 knows how to handle heavy calibre guns. Her current 
 occupation is leader of the Outer Police Force.

 END OF FILE  
 ===========


 Darkness. Tienllen is surrounded by a pitch-black darkness. 
 He can't remember how he got here, let alone how to get out
 of this place. Suddenly, an ominous, but at the same time 
 strangely familiar voice sounds, like a rumbling 
 thunderstorm in the distance...
 "TIENLLEN!!"
 Tienllen looks up, surprised, looking for the origin of the 
 voice.
 "TIENLLEN! YOU MUST RECONQUER YOUR POWER! THE EIGHT MAGIC 
 STATUES ARE THE KEY TO THE POWER OF THE GODS!"
 "What?!"
 "YOU MUST RELEASE THE DARSAS!"
 "Darsas ?"
 "IF YOU CAN RELEASE THEM,YOUR OWN POWERS WILL BE REVIVED. 
 YOUR POWERS, AS WELL AS MINE. AND THE DIVINE POWERS ARE 
 LIMITLESS..."
 "Divine powers? But who..."

 Tienllens words are cut off by a loud beeping in the 
 distance. It appears to grow louder and louder. The Darkness 
 dissolves into a grey mist... Slowly, Tienllen regains 
 consciousness. It was only a dream! The familiar look of the 
 interior of his own appartment quickly bring him back into 
 reality. He'd had quite a hangover from last night's party, 
 and he'd fallen asleep on the couch. Tienllen struggles up 
 and decides to put an end to the beeping, which still fills 
 the room.

 "Shut up, Freddy! What's up?"

 Freddy, the home computer, immediately cuts off is warning 
 signal.

 "There are two people in front of the door,master. One of 
 them is miss Meiphen, the other one I cannot identify."
 "Put them on screen, Freddy."
 "Yes, master."

 While Freddy follows the order, Tienllen lights a cigarette. 
 On Freddy's viewscreen, the familiar face of Tienllens 
 friend Meiphen appears.

 "Thank God,you're awake, Tienllen. Open up,quickly!"
 "Let them in, Freddy."
 "Miss Meiphen is armed,master. Do you want me to remove her  
 equipment?"
 "No, it's okay."
 "Yes, master. Welcome, miss Meiphen."

 With a hiss, the door opens, and Meiphen enters. On her 
 back, she carries someone. A child, it seems.

 "Hi, Freddy. Make sure you monitor the outside door
 carefully!"
 "Yes, miss Meiphen."

 Meiphen carries the kid, who appears to be wounded, into the 
 bedroom.

 "This poor girl will borrow your bedroom for a while. You 
 don't seem to be needing it, anyway..."

 A moment later, Meiphen joins Tienllen in the living room, 
 and slumps down in a couch.

 "Sorry I'm dropping in so unexpectedly."
 "What's the reason of your visit?"
 "Well, it's about that girl. I found her on the street when 
 I returned from work. She seemed to be running from 
 something or someone. I decided to take her with me, and 
 after that, my MINI was followed by a black car. I don't 
 think they were after me. They wanted the girl, I'm certain 
 of that. Those pursueers seemed pretty relentless. It took 
 me twenty minutes to shake them off. After that, I went to 
 your place straight away."
 "You know anything about her?"
 "She's not wounded, just in shock. I found her on the ruined 
 highway in the vicinity. Anyway, she doesn't have a citizen 
 ID pass. But, judging from her clothes, she's no Inner 
 citizen... But I think she's awake now!"

 Meiphen disappears into the bedroom, where she heard some 
 noises. Then she calls Tienllen.

 When Tienllen enters the room, the girl in the bed seems 
 frightened. Meiphen tells her not to worry.

 "It's okay, Homei. He's a friend."
 Homei is silent, still not comfortable.
 "You know who she is now?"
 "She's an  Outer citizen and used to live in the 
 Tonglong-quarter."
 Homei continues her story:
 "Both my parents died in an accident when I was still very 
 young. Me and my twin sister Shawmei used to live on our 
 own. We weren't rich, but we were happy there, until..."
 Meiphen continues:
 "...until last night, when they where attacked by a group of 
 monsters, accompanied by some men in black suits. Doesn't 
 that sound like the Blackblades to you, the SIVA security 
 force? Besides, her twin sister was kidnapped by a guy who 
 introduced himself as 'Lee'. I think SIVA is finally showing 
 its true face..."
 "What's that supposed to mean?"
 "Don't you think it's odd that Blackblades co-operate with 
 monsters? Anyway, Blackblades aren't supposed to have any 
 business in the Outer. And isn't there a member of that 
 group of SIVA top-executives, the "Octavirate",as they 
 call themselves, who is called Lee?"
 "Right....Lee Wong, he's nicknamed the 'Southern Demonlord', 
 for some reason..."
 "Tienllen...Let's visit Shue. He knows more about things 
 like this."
 Meanwhile, Homei has left the bed.
 "Can I come with you,please?"
 "Don't you think you'd better stay in bed?"
 "No! I'm fine!"
 "Mmm....leaving her here all alone could be dangerous. 
 Perhaps Shue can keep an eye on her..."
 "What?!"
 "Okay... Let's go,Tienllen"

 Tienllen gets his gun and holster-belt and orders Freddy to 
 guard his apartment carefully during their absence. The 
 three of them get in the elevator, and a few moments later 
 they're in the middle of the noises of the awakening streets 
 of Hongkong...

PART 2 - ACQUAINTANCES

 SIVA NETWORK

 CITIZEN DATA
 SUBJECT: PERSONAL FILE SHUE
 RATING: CONFINDENTIAL

 NAME       : SHUE WANG
 GENDER     : MALE
 AGE        : UNKNOWN
 OCCUPATION : NONE
 RESIDENCE  : OUTER, DOWNTOWN

 Shue is an old man, living a hermit's life in the outer. 
 Very little data is available on him. It is known that he 
 has raised Tienllen and Meiphen. It is rumoured that he 
 possesses great magic powers. He's very skillful with the 
 bo, the long fighting rod.

 END OF FILE
 ===========

 HONGKONG, DOWNTOWN, EARLY IN THE MORNING.

 "Tienllen!"

 Meiphen is calling her friend, who is walking away with a 
 determined look on his face.

 "You're going the wrong way! Shue's house is over there..."
 Don't tell me you're going over to the Shangri-la bar again!
 Are you listening to me? Damn egoist!"

 Suddenly, Tienllen halts. He has the feeling there's trouble 
 coming up...

 "What's the matter?"
 "Troubles....."

 All of a sudden, a group of black-clad people appear. 
 Without saying a word, they surround the terrified Tienllen, 
 Meiphen and Homei...

 "Shit! That's what you get for not listening to me..."
 "Oh, shut up...."

 The black-clad persons have completely surrounded the trio 
 and one of them, apparently their leader, steps forward.
 "Hand over that girl, or..."
 "Or what?", Tienllen wants to know.
 "..or we'll have to use violence!"
 "Boy, am i scared..." Before he's even finished the 
 sentence, Tienllen has already drawn his gun.
 "Homei, get down! This is dangerous!"

 De Blackblades are well trained however, and draw their own 
 weapons simultaneously.

 After a brief but bloody skirmish, the 6 Blackblades turn 
 out to be no match for Tienllen's gun and Meiphen's metal 
 whip. The ground is now covered with 6 black-clad bodies.

 "This is gonna be an expensive job...", Tienllen mutters.
 "Oh, try not to think of money for once... Come on, we were
 about to pay Shue a visit, remember?"

 The trio walks past some building blocks, and reaches the 
 humble residence of Tienllen's and Meiphen's mentor; the 
 old Shue.

 Shue seems to be in a deep meditation in front of the 
 fire, that always burns in the middle of his living room. 
 As soon as the trio enters however, he jumps up.

 "Meiphen! And if that isn't Tienllen! Long time no see!"
 "Long enough for me...", Tienllen whispers to Meiphen.
 "Meiphen...my, you've grown. And you're still as well-bodied as 
 always..." - SQUEEZE -
 "IEK!" - WHACK! -
 "Horny old fart! You're pretty virile for someone your age..."
 "Naturally. Seeing you makes an old man like me feel young 
 again..."
 "Old fool..."
 "Let me guess... You're probably here to ask me about SIVA's 
 activities?"
 "You guessed right."
 "Very well, sit down."
 "But don't you dare touching me again!"
 "Harharhar...". Shue turns to Homei: "So you are Homei?"
 "Eh..yes."
 "I can assure you, that your sister is safe."
 "Really?!"
 "De leaders of the demon-faith will use your sister for 
 their rituals. She's very important to them and I think 
 they'll make her a shrine maiden. Still, it's very important 
 that you find her as soon as possible."
 "What can you tell us about SIVA?" Tienllen wants to know.
 "What I am sure of, is that they'll have to do something 
 about the pitiful situation in the Outer, or things will 
 soon come to an outbreak. Great changes are at hand, my 
 children... But as for that demon-faith, it's obvious that 
 SIVA is behind that. All those believers don't seem to have 
 any idea of that. But the human mind is easily fooled...
 What's more important at this moment, is that you know about 
 the "Demon Octavirate". This is a group of eight persons, 
 all mighty sorcerers. They all have a leading position 
 within SIVA. I foresee you'll see quite a lot of them in the 
 future. Their combined power is gigantic, and you'd be 
 better off avoiding them. Your only chance is destroying 
 them one by one.
 "Are you certain that Shawmei is safe?"
 "Absolutely. She'll participate in the rituals of the Demon-
 creed as a shrine maiden. They say these rituals are 
 performed to cause the "Resurrection of the Divine 
 Powers"... Anyway, shrine maidens are treated extremely 
 well.
 "What's all this got to do with this Lee?"
 "I can't tell you anything about Lee, I'm afraid..."

 Shue gets up.

 "Tienllen. The "Demon Octavirate" possesses 8 magic statues, 
 the "Darsas", which the members carry with them inside their 
 bodies. It's of mayor importance that you get those statues.
 They hold enormous powers you will doublessly need.

 "But how can we find out where to find the members of that 
 group?", Tienllen likes to know.
 "Go to Iren, in the Shangri-la club. She's got the 
 right connections and should be able to tell you all you 
 want to know. But I'll give you guys some company..."

 Shue claps his hands, and with a loud creaking noise, a 
 yellow battle robot shuffles into the room.

 "What?! That heap of junk?"
 "Haha.. Isac will prove very useful, especially now that 
 Homei's powers haven't awakened yet..."
 "What powers?"
 "Later. Tienllen, I'll watch over the girl. Isac will join 
 you two."

 The four of them walk outside.

 "And be careful. Many monsters will cross your path!"

 -SQUEEZE-

 "IEKS!"  -WHACK!-

 "Old pervert!"
 "Very well, now you are prepared to go..."
 "Tienllen! You really think it's a good idea to leave Homei
 with this old fart?"
 "hehehe... Fear not. This child is in good hands with me..."
 "I'm not a kid anymore!!"

 After they've said goodbye to Shue and Homei, the two leave 
 Shue's house, followed by their new mechanical partner.

 - INTERLUDE : A FRUIT OF PARADISE -

 THAT SAME TIME, ILLUSION CITADEL, LEE'S QUARTERS

 The Southern Demonlord, Lee Wong, is silently looking down 
 upon the result of last night's raid: the girl called 
 Shawmei, still sleeping. Because of his ponderings, he 
 doesn't notice his servant Erfas entering the room.

 "Master Lee, you called me?"
 "What about the order I gave you?"
 "What do you mean, sir?"
 "The other girl. Has she been found yet?"
 "No sir, we haven't located her twin-sister yet. But our 
 police and spies are still on the lookout..."
 "You haven't told the others about this investigation,yet?"
 "No,but..."
 "Then abandon it. We have no reason to continue our 
 search any longer."
 "Very well, master."

 Erfas disappears. Lee watches Shawmei's face. The girl is 
 still fast asleep.

 "This girl is so beautiful.... The incarnation of 
 Paradise... But where do these feelings come from? Is she 
 enchanting me with some kind of magic? Shawmei..."

 - INTERLUDE : DARK CONSTELLATION -

 A WHILE LATER, ILLUSION CITADEL

 Lee strides forward between the lane of guards. Humanoid 
 juggernauts they are, all armed with heavy rifles, 
 presenting arms as Lee walks by. Though he's been here 
 before, the place gets to his nerves every time again.
 He enters the centre of the dark Citadel...

 It's  a dark place, where the very walls seem to radiate 
 evil... The ghastly atmosphere is even intensified by the 
 blueish light of the candles on the walls. They cast weird 
 shadows over the ancient reliefs on the high walls. The 
 eight persons, standing on the eight platforms in the middle of the 
 hall, four men and four women, seem strangely in place 
 here somehow...

 The eight figures kneel down simultaneousley. The tense 
 silence seems to grow even heavier. It's as if the darkness
 near the invisible ceiling of the vault is clotting 
 together to form something blacker than the surrounding 
 darkness. Suddenly, there is a bright flash of light and a 
 crackling like an electrical discharge. Where where there
 was darkness a moment ago, a cloaked appearance is now
 floating. A rumbling voice resounds through the hall.

 "I SALUTE YOU, MY SERVANTS!"

 A bright ray of light pierces the darkness and illuminates 
 Lee's shape.

 "LEE, REPORT!"
 "I followed your orders, my lord. The kidnapped girl now 
 serves us as a shrine maiden."
 "VERY GOOD. CONTINUE THE PREPARATIONS FOR THE RITUAL."
 "Yes, my lord, but..."
 "YES?"
 "Oh, never mind..."

 The ray of light shifts from Lee to the shape on the 
 platform in front of Lee.

 "MESHMER, NORTHERN DEMONLORD. HOW IS YOUR WORK PROGRESSING?"
 "I've just initialized Phase 2, lord."
 "HMMM...I'LL WITNESS THE FINAL PHASE PERSONALLY."
 "You'll have to be patient a while longer for that,lord."

 Another shape is illuminated.

 "DAI, EASTERN DEMONLORD...."
 "I haven't had an opportunity to use my power yet!"
 "YOUR TIME WILL COME... BE PATIENT...."
 "Hah, good..."

 Once more, the light shifts.

 "FAY, WESTEREN DEMONLORD. HOW'S THE SITUATION AMONG THE 
 CITIZENS?"
 "All citizens, rich and poor, are very easy to fool. The 
 number of faithfuls is growing day by day..."
 "VERY GOOD."

 The light disappears.

 "THE FINAL PREPARATIONS HAVE BEEN MADE. OUR EARTHLY 
 PARADISE, "AGARTHA", IS ABOUT TO BECOME REALITY!"

 The eight people start a triumphant roar.
 After a bright flash, the floating shape vanishes.

 All eight leave the vault. Lee is the last one to leave. He 
 doesn't notice Meshmer is lingering deliberately until the 
 others besides Lee have left.

 "Lee. Leaving already? Are you in a hurry?"
 "No."
 "The others have left. Now we can talk openly... Listen,Lee,
 let me give you some advise... We all know that you're the 
 Master's favorite. If I were you, I'd start using that power
 for my own benefit. Just think about it... But I won't 
 keep you any longer. You must have more important things to 
 do."

 Meshmer disappears. Lee exits silently as well. The Hall of 
 Darkness is filled with silence once more.

PART 3 - THE WIND OF CHANGES

 SIVA NETWORK

 SIVA PERSONNEL DATA 
 SUBJECT: FAY'S PERSONAL DATA
 RATING: CONFIDENTIAL

 NAME             : FAY OKAZE
 ALIAS          : 'WESTERN DEMONLORD'
 GENDER         : M
 AGE            : UNKNOWN 
 OCCUPATION     : COMPANY PRESIDENT SIVA ENTERPRISES INC.
 WHEREABOUTS    : INNER, OFFICE QUARTERS, SIVA HEAD-OFFICE
 REMARKS :
 From SIVA Head-Office Building in Hongkong, Fay serves
 with SIVA's financial and political interests. His position
 would make him the official leader of SIVA, but in reality,
 his authority is limited. As a drug-addict, he has an 
 unstable and weak personality. His lover and most loyal 
 servant is Ryukei, head of SIVA's medical research staff. 
 She is a very gifted scientist and runs a medical laboratory 
 in the SIVA Head-Office. 

 Fay is said to be a mighty sorcerer, master of the Powers of 
 Wind.

 END OF FILE
 ===========

 OUTER DOWNTOWN, EARLY IN THE MORNING, SHANGRI-LA CLUB.

 The Shangri-la bar/disco has the reputation of being the 
 biggest recreational opportunity in the entire Outer, which 
 isn't such a big deal, regarding that it's also the only 
 one. Certain is however, that the place is crowded any time 
 of the day or night. You can rest assured that the skilled 
 bartender Flamenco will always surprise you with one of his 
 new cocktails...

 "Tienllen, Meiphen! How'r ya doin'?"
 "Great Flamenco, thanks for asking..."
 "Wanna drink? Ever tried this "brainfucker"? You'll never 
 know what hit ya..."
 "No,thanks. Actually, we're here to see the boss..."
 "Iren? Sure, ma'am. I'll give her a call."

 After a brief intercom conversation, Flamenco returns to 
 Tienllen and Meiphen.
 "She's waiting for you in the VIP-room, ma'am. Have a nice 
 day..."

 After having passed some grim-looking guards, Tienllen and 
 Meiphen enter a luxurious room where Iren, manager of 
 Shangri-la, is waiting for them.

 "Hi! Long time no see! Grab a seat...."
 The three of them sit down.

 "Say, Meiphen, why don't you introduce me to that handsome 
 companion of yours?"
 "You mean Tienllen?! But..."
 "Ah, so THAT's Tienllen... Too bad, I thought..."
 "Hey, don't think we're involved or anything..."
 "Too bad. I think you'd make a perfect couple... But what 
 did you want to see me about?"
 "For starters, what do you know about SIVA and the 
 Demon-Religion?"
 "About SIVA, I can't tell you any more than the general 
 public knows through SIVA-Net... The only thing I know about 
 the Demon-Religion is, that the number of followers is 
 growing by the day, and that they use drugs during their 
 meetings."
 "What about the 'Demon Ocavirate'?"
 "About them, there are several weird rumors. Some say they 
 are 8 top-executives of SIVA with supernatural powers. It's 
 even rumoured they'd have some connection to a 3000 year old 
 Chinese legend... Imagine that! In this age of progress and 
 technology! But they do remain a mystery..."
 "Can you tell us about Lee's whereabouts at this moment?"
 "Lee's territory is the Southern section of the city. But at 
 this moment, his car has been spotted in the Western city 
 section, near the SIVA Company HQ."
 "Fine, then that's where we're going..."
 "As I know that you are poor citizens, I won't charge you 
 for this information."

 Tienllen and Meiphen get up, and intend to leave the room.

 "Leaving already? Wait a second..."
 "Thanks Iren, but we're in kind of a hurry."
 "Wait! Don't you want to get to the Wester city Section? 
 Without a proper ID-pass, you guys will never get through 
 the Inner border-checkpoints... There is a Danger Zone in 
 Kowloon. There, you'll find an elevator that is out of use, 
 but still operative. It will take you to the Inner office 
 quarters above Kowloon. But the terminal in this elevator 
 will require an Inner ID pass. Here, I'll give you this...

 Iren provides them the ID pass, and Tienllen and Meiphen 
 leave.

 "Take good care. And Tienllen, be a little nicer to Meiphen 
 for a change..."
 The two leave the disco.

 "You know, Tienllen... Iren's right. Perhaps I SHOULD leave 
 you. Wait! Really, you're getting more arrogant and 
 conceited every day... I said wait! But... are you listening 
 at all?! Tienllen!!"

 INTERLUDE - RITUAL

 INNER, SAIKUNG-QUARTERS, DEMON-RELIGION SHRINE

 The temple of the Demon-religion is chock-full of people. An 
 excited murmur passes through the crowd, when a litter 
 bearing a young girl is carried in through the entrance 
 doors. A gong-stroke resounds through the hall, silencing 
 the crowd.

 The murmur has died away when the litter is taken slowly to 
 the altar in front and the girl is gently put down on it. 
 The high priest speaks.

 "Brothers, sisters... today our prayers have been answered 
 at last. De Demonlords have heard them. Tonight, we will 
 begin the final ritual. This girl will be inaugurated as a 
 shrine maiden, like the 7 others in the other shrines. This 
 one will serve the power of Fire...
 Let us pray for the coming of Agartha, the Earthly 
 Paradise!!"

 After some gestures of the priest, Shawmei's body suddenly 
 starts floating upwards. Her body turns into an upright 
 position, facing the crowd. At this very moment, she opens 
 her eyes, and watches the amazed crowd of worshippers. All 
 of a sudden, her body starts radiating a bright light, 
 illuminating the dimly lit temple. The crowd goes into an 
 extacy...

 OUTER DOWNTOWN, EV-STATION

 Tienllen, Meiphen and Isac are in the underground station, 
 waiting for the next EV, or Electric Vehice, a form of 
 private citizen transportation set up by SIVA.

 "Why did you have to take that MINI of yours to the garage 
 for maintancance NOW, of all times? Now, this thing will 
 even cost me money!"
 "Oh, shut up Tienllen..."

 The anti-G vehicle slides to a halt before them, hardly 
 making any sound. After the three have entered the car, it 
 rushes away towards its destination...

INTERLUDE - LOVERS 1

 INNER OFFICE QUARTERS, SIVA MAIN-OFFICE, FAY'S BEDROOM

 Fay and Ryukei are in a tight embrace, exhaused but 
 satisfied after their lovemaking.

 "Well, Ryukei, what do you think?"
 "Fay...."
 "Wasn't it a mistake to join the Octavirate? Everything I 
 did the past 20 years seems so...pointless..."
 "Fay, you shouldn't be worrying about these things..."
 "I know, I know..."
 "If our mission succeeds, paradise will be within our reach, 
 of that I'm sure."
 "I'm glad to have an associate like you, Ryukei..."
 "And I'm glad to have a master like you, Fay..."
 "Ryukei..."


OUTER, KOWLOON

 Kowloon is one of the areas that suffered most by the 
 Disaster. Great areas of this previous centre of Hongkong 
 are still unaccessible and the population is very poor. 
 Quite some areas have been marked DANGER ZONES, which are 
 not safe to enter for the public due to the presence of 
 various carnivorous creatures.

 It is one of these Danger Zones that Tienllen, Meiphen and 
 Isac have to cross to get to the elevator. The area is 
 roamed by winged KEE TUA's, bat-like creatures and ZU VA's, 
 squidlike bloodsuckers. Despite their combat experience, 
 Tienlen and Meiphen are fortunate to have Isac on their 
 side. Shue's combat robot is a fearsome opponent with his 
 machineguns and Micro Black Hole Cannon.

 After a long journey through the desolate Danger Zone, they 
 manage to reach the elevator. Their ID-pass is accepted by 
 the elevator's control system. It takes them up to the 
 "upper class" Hongkong on the earth's surface, the Inner...

 The SIVA Head-Office is impossible to miss...

SIVA MAIN OFFICE, LOBBY

 One of the elevator doors slides open and Lee, Fay and 
 Ryukei get out.

 "Well Lee, I guess we'll meet again soon..."
 Have your secretary contact me as soon as you can find some 
 time"
 Fay sighs,
 "This is starting to tire me... I could use some sleep, 
 after all these meetings and appointments..."
 "I understand, Fay. All these appointments wear me out, too. 
 But I really have to leave now, see you soon."

 Lee wants to leave, but then he notices three persons 
 barring his way.

 "Lee!"

 Lee watches the uninvited visitors, surprised.

 "What have you done to Shawmei? Let her go!"
 "Do you know who you are talking to?"
 "We certainly do!"
 "I have nothing to say to you..."

 Lee moves his hands in a swift gesture, and suddenly a huge 
 firebolt smashes into Tienllen and Meiphen, knocking them 
 down.

 "Hmm...you're pretty persistent..."

 A second firebolt hits Tienllen and Meiphen. Both of them
 lose consciousness. At the same time, some guards hurry to 
 the location of the fight.

 Isac starts buzzing like mad, and stretches out his mechanic 
 arms to protect his masters, at the same time loosening a 
 barrage from his guns at Lee. Lee however, radiates an 
 intense heathn and the bullets explode at a safe distance 
 without doing any damage. Fay now joins his associate.

 "My, isn't he the brave..."

 After some quick hand-motions by Fay, an invisible sword 
 appears to cut off both arms of the unfortunate robot. 
 Isac's body floats upwards and explodes after a few seconds.
 Fay crushes some of the smaller remains of the droid under 
 his foot.

 "They don't make droids like they used to nowadays..."
 "But who are these two?", Lee wonders.
 "No ordinary human being should be able to survive ONE of my 
 fire attacks, let alone two. Looks like they're just 
 unconscious. They may pose a threat to us, so I think we 
 better finish them off right now..."

 Ryukei steps forward.

 "Mr. Lee sir, wait a second. Don't kill them yet, please! I 
 could give them a thorough medical scan in order to find out 
 what it is, that protects them."
 "Sure, you go ahead."
 "Thank you, sir."

 Lee leaves, and Tienllen and Meiphen are dragged away by the 
 guards.


 SIVA MAIN-OFFICE, RYUKEI'S MEDICAL LAB

 Meiphen's body lies motionless in the medical pod which is 
 scanning her continuously. On the various computer screens 
 in the room, the results of the probes are made visible. Fay 
 enters.

 "Well?"
 "We'll examine the man later. I found out that this woman is 
 radiating some sort of protective power. The probe registers 
 some sort of force-field. But I've got no clue whatsoever 
 about the cause. Perhaps we'll have a better image right 
 away..."
 "Hurry, Ryukei! I want to see results!"
 "Yes, Fay."

 Suddenly, one of the viewscreens starts flashing. The gauges 
 show an abnormally high readout.

 "We've got something!"
 "What?"
 "Look! But that's..."

 SIVA MAIN OFFICE, CELL BLOCK

 Tienllen slowly regains consciousness in his cell. He rubs 
 his aching head.

 "Tienllen, wake up!"
 "I was hit harder than I thought... I'm hearing voices..."
 "Stop kidding!"
 "Who is that?"
 "Move away from the door!"

 Tienllen steps away from the door of his cell. It's a good 
 thing he does, because a few seconds later, the door is 
 blast away. Through the doorway, a strange-looking man 
 enters. His long robe and long white hare give him a 
 priest-like appearance.

 "You have to get away from here, Tienllen!"
 "Did Shue send you?"
 "Send me? Nobody sent me..."
 "But who ARE you, then?"
 "My name is Kai."
 "I've been following you since downtown. I have cleared all 
 obstacles on this floor for you. Escaping should be easy."
 "What about Meiphen?"
 "She is of no concern to me."
 "Then it's up to me to find her..."

 Kai faces Tienllen pensively.

 "Very well, do whatever you wish."

 In the middle of the small room, a metal case appears out of 
 thin air.

 "This is your equipment. Now, I must leave."

 Before Tienllen gets the chance to do anything, Kai has left 
 the room already.

 A couple of minutes later, Tienllen is fully equipped again, 
 scouting the hall of the cell block. On his way to the exit, 
 he meets several dead guards, victims of his unexpected 
 ally. Suddenly, he hears someone approaching around a 
 corner. He draws his gun and...

 "Tienllen, at last!"
 "Shue?! How did you get here?"
 "Iren told me they'd imprisoned you... Where is Meiphen?"
 "Eeehmm..."
 "I see. It's up to us to find her! We'll succeed if we stick 
 together..."

 But Tienllen and Shue find out that it's far from easy. The 
 enormous SIVA-office is a true labyrinth and guarded by 
 great numbers of security robots. To avoid unwelcome 
 attention, they decide to use the air ducts of the building 
 even though these are crawling with aggressive Harmeruns and 
 Le Va's. After a while, they find an air vent leading to an 
 office. Here they meet a busy executive that hasn't noticed 
 them.

 "I'm sorry to disturb you sir, but could you tell me where 
 to find the company president's office?"
 "Anice! EVERYBODY knows that! Don't boher me!", the man 
 growls without looking up.
 "I'm sorry... But I'm not Anice..."
 "Who the..."
 Only now, the man turns around, and faces the muzzle of 
 Tienllen's gun.
 "Are you in a hurry to die?"
 "Wait! Don't hurt me!"
 "That's better. Now let's see if we can find anything here 
 we can use..."
 "I..."
 "Tie him up, Shue"

 A little later, the executive has been tied up and gagged.

 "Tienllen, open that drawer over there."
 "Shue, aren't we intruding on anyone's privacy here?"
 "What are you talking about? I'm not interested in sex 
 scandals or somthing like that..."

 Tienllen finds a VIP-pass in one of the drawers.

 "Excellent. This is for using the VIP-elevator... I bet that 
 will get us to Fay's office!"

 And indeed, they soon find an elevator bearing the 
 SIVA-emblem, asking for a VIP-pass. The elevator goes up all 
 the way to the top floor. The two enter a sparsely furnished 
 office. One of its walls is almost entirely taken up by a 
 giant window, showing a magnificent view over the 
 Hongkong-metropolis. In front of the big desk in the middle 
 of the room, is Ryukei next to a chair bearing a drugged 
 Meiphen. Behind the desk is Fay, facing the visitors with a 
 wicked smile on his face.

 "Shue Wang... I should have known it was you who was behind 
 all this..."
 "Long time no see, Fay."
 "Yes, it's been many years..."
 "Time hasn't been kind to you, Fay. But now, release 
 Meiphen!"

 Shue walks towards Meiphen, but Ryukei blocks his way.

 "Let him go, Ryukei!"
 "But Fay..."
 "They are no match to us..."
 "I'd hate to use violence, Shue tells the young woman.

 Ryukei steps back reluctantly.

 "Say, Shue, have you met my associate yet?"
 "What?!"

 Fay makes a strange gesture. Suddenly, the room is darkened 
 by a gigantic shape, appearing in front of the window. Two 
 enormous arms break through the window and crush the desk. 
 The chair in which Meiphen is seated slides aside, out of 
 danger.

 "I have summoned this Wind-Giant. Now we'll see who's 
 laughing last..."
 "Tienllen, attack!"
 "Ah, his name is Tienllen. I wonder..."
 "Don't talk, Fay! Fight!"
 "As you wish..."

 A heated battle unfolds. The wind giant protects Fay and 
 Ryukai, using his deadly Death-Breath on Shue and Tienllen. 
 And Fay isn't helpless, either. He proves that he is truly 
 the Master of Wind. Tornados and wind-spirits are 
 constantluy attacking the two.

 But Shue is a mighty enchanter as well. Thanks to his 
 spells, he and Tienllen manage to defeat the Wind-giant and 
 rob Fay of his last strength. Before he's defeated, Fay uses 
 his last power to bring his beloved Ryukei into safety. The 
 young scientist has vanished into thin air...

 Fay is on the ground, dying.

 "S-Shue... t-this girl..."
 "You mean Meiphen?"
 "The g-girl... I d-discovered her o-origins..."
 "What?!"
 "I w-wish you all the luck..."

 Fay's body appears to shrivel up and eventually, only his 
 skeleton is left. And then, even this is reduced to ash in 
 an instant. Meanwhile, Meiphen has regained consciousness.

 "W-where am I?"
 "Are you okay?"
 "Y-yes, Shue... Where am I?"
 "You're safe now, that's the most important right now. 
 Hey,look!"

 Shue has discovered a shiny object in Fay's remains.

 "This is the Darsa-statue... Tienllen, touch it. By doing 
 that, you will break the Power Seal."
 "Power Seal?"

 Tienllen bends over and picks up the small statue. A second 
 later, it dissolves completely in his hand. At the same 
 moment, he feels a strange sensation rippling through his 
 body...

 "What happened?"
 "There are eight of these statues. You have to find them 
 all, and destroy them. At the same time, they will transfer 
 their power to you. That means you will have to defeat all 
 the Demon Lords..."
 "The Demon Lords..."

 Tienllen walks towards the broken window, looking out over 
 Hongkong bay. Somewhere in this metropolis, there were 7 
 more of these superhuman beings... And next time, he would 
 be expected. Despite the determined look on his face 
 Tienllen knows that this was only the beginning...

PART 4 - THE GARDEN OF EVIL


 SIVA NETWORK

 SIVA PERSONNEL FILES
 SUBJECT: PERSONAL FILE VARLA   
 RATING: CONFIDENTIAL

 NAME        : VARLA ????
 ALIAS       : "SAIKUNG-EMPRESS"
 OCCUPATION  : HEAD OF SIVA ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 
               DEPARTMENT
 GENDER      : F
 AGE         : UNKNOWN 

 Varla is a mysterious personality, like most of the other 
 SIVA-CEOs. After the reconstruction of Hongkong, she was 
 assigned to supervise the city's protected greenbelt area.
 She has hardly ever shown up outside this area ever since.
 It is known that she shows a great concern for the nature 
 and wildlife on earth. She's said to be a powerful 
 sorceress, gifted with the power of the Trees. Her servant 
 is Deyulan, a man of American native blood. It is rumoured
 that he's a shapeshifter.

 END OF FILE
 ===========

 OUTER DOWNTOWN, SHUE'S PLACE

 "Old-timer! You're back..."

 Tienllen,  Meiphen  en  Shue, back from their mission in the
 SIVA main office, are surprised with the presence of a 
 stranger in Shue's living room. He appears to be an 
 acquaintance of Sheu.

 "Kashu! If that isn't Kashu!"
 "Old-timer..."
 "Stop calling me old-timer for once!"
 "Hahahaha...Oh, and you must be Tienllen and Meiphen?"
 "Ah, you remember them..."
 "I'm Kashu, an old friend of the old-timer. Wasn't he the 
 one who raised and trained you since you were kids?"
 "They sure have grown, haven't they?"

 Kashu,a menacing appearance who has survived more than some 
 mere streetfights, judging from his biomech body 
 enhancements, looks at Tienllen and Meiphen approvingly.

 "I talked to Tao Ho. He needs Tienllen's help."
 "Tao Ho? Have you joined the resistance?"
 "I owe him one, you know that... By the way old-timer, I'd 
 start looking for a better hiding place for the key to your
 front door, if I were you..."
 "Dammit! Cut the old-timer bit, will you?"
 "You have to admit you're starting to show your age, old 
 man..."
 "Tienllen, Meiphen, tell him to stop!"
 "Well...it hasn't affected his  sex-drives, that's for 
 sure", Meiphen giggles.
 "Harharhar...Still the same old lecher, eh?"
 "Allright, that does it!! Go and make yourself useful!
 Why don't you go and help those two with their mission?"
 maar!"
 "Fine with me..."


 MEANWHILE, ILLUSION CITADEL   

 Shawmei and her two servants cross one of the citadel's 
 corridors. Suddenly, Shawmei notices a crying winged shape 
 lying on the floor.

 "What's the matter with her?"
 "Shrine maiden...you really shouldn't concern yourself with
 such humble affairs..."
 "Why shouldn't I help somebody who is obviously in trouble?
 Aren't all humans equal?"

 Shawmei kneels down in front of the strange-looking winged
 girl.
 "She looks so strange...Why are you crying? Don't you know 
 that the Earthly Paradise will soon be a reality? Come... 
 I'll carry you on my shoulder..."
 "I..."
 "My name is Shawmei. Who are you?"
 "...I-I'm Noi."
 "Allright, Noi, I'll take you to my room..."
 "T-Thank you..."

 Shawmei leaves for her room carrying Noi on her shoulder, 
 followed by the astonished servants...

 SHUE'S HOUSE

 When Shue sits down at his usual spot near the fire, he 
 notices something on the floor.

 "Look, a note..."
 "What's it say?"
 "Here. Read it yourself."

 Meiphen examines the piece of paper.

 "Oh,no! That girl, Homei, she went to the Saikung area on 
 her own! She left to find her sister!"
 "Where's the Saikung area?"
 "It's the place where the demon-religion performs its 
 rituals!"
 "That's why she went there... She knows her sister takes part 
 in those rituals!"
 "Tienllen, let's head for the Saikung area. I could use a 
 little warming up", Kashu growls aggressively...

 LATER, SHANGRI-LA CLUB


 "Welcome."

 Iren has expected the threesome.

 "You are Kashu, right? Member of the special multinational 
 inspection team sent a few years after the Disaster. You 
 fought as a mercenary soldier in several places all over the 
 world. The Third Gulf War, several racial riots, the Refugee 
 Wars... In many countries you are known as a true war-hero. 
 And you don't fight for money."
 "You certainly did your homework..."
 "Let's say I've got an excellent source that knows all about 
 you."
 "Apparently."
 "So you guys want to go to the Saikung Quarter?"
 "How do you know?"
 "Easy...Homei went there as well, to study the demon 
 rituals,right?"
 "Yeah, but how do you know that?"
 "It's my job to know...But frankly, I think that girl is a 
 bit too rash, if you ask me. Saikung is a dangerous place
 for a girl on her own. I'll help you get there."
 "For free?"
 "What? Oh, you mean an I.D. pass for Saikung. Ofcourse,for 
 free!"
 "Thank you very much!"
 "Anything else you'd like to know?"
 "Yeah, like what business has SIVA in the Saikung Quarter?"
 "Officially, Saikung is a protected greenbelt area. But 
 actually, it is the habitat for the failed results of SIVA's 
 biological experiments. The forest provides an excellent 
 camouflage."
 "Any news on the demon religion?"
 "Since they've appointed that girl as the new shrine maiden,
 the number of followers is really booming. They're still 
 having meetings in Saikung."
 "How about SIVA itself?"
 "Fay's death doesn't appear to have any effect on them. 
 Meshmer has taken over the company president's duties. His 
 office is in the Northern area. Meshmer is a member of the 
 Octavirate as well. I don't think Fay's death will pose you 
 any difficulties. Ryukei, Fay's former servant, is under 
 accusation for Fay's murder and has been arrested by the 
 Blackblades. The SIVA main office has been closed down and 
 everyone working there has been sent home"
 "I think that's all we need to know for now."
 "Very well. Here's your ID pass. For free, ofcourse."


 The threesome says goodbye to Iren and leaves for the 
 Saikung Quarters.


 MEANWHILE, ILLUSION CITADEL

 Lee, who has just come to see Shawmei, is about to leave.

 "I really have to go."
 "Will I ever see you again, Lee?"
 "Very soon, rest assured..."
 "So we will meet again?"
 "Ofcourse."
 "I don't know why, but I feel that something troubles 
 you,Lee."
 "Me?! I'm not..."
 "I'm sorry. I shouldn't have brought it up..."

 Lee walks to the door of Shawmei's room, then turns around.

 "I'll protect you, Shawmei. My only concern is for you. Are 
 you strong enough to cope with all of this? Anyway, I'll 
 protect you from all your enemies. For you, I'll fight 
 anyone! That is all I wanted to tell you..."

 Before Shawmei can say something back, Lee has left.

 LATER, SAKUNG-QUARTERS, VARLA'S PLACE

 In the middle of the green ocean of trees formed by the 
 Hongkong Greenbelt Area, two naked, sweaty bodies are lying 
 down on a giant outgrowth of the jungle below. Varla and her 
 servant Deyulan are recovering from their common "effort" 
 just a moment ago. Suddenly, the phone rings. Varla answers 
 it. There's a man's voice on the other side.

 "I hope I haven't woken you up, ma'am?"
 "Forget it. What's the matter?"
 "I think we found the sister of the new shrine maiden. We 
 found her scurrying around in the forest."
 "Very well. Keep her in my office. I'll be right there."
 "Very well."

 Varla puts the phone down.

 "Problems, Varla?"
 "Nothing you should worry about, dear."
 "Good. Varla...you're so beautiful..."
 "Ah, and you're so strong..."
 "Varla...."


 SAIKUNG-QUARTERS, VARLA'S OFFICE

 Varla  watches two Blackblade-officers dragging in a 
 strugglig girl.

 "Where's my sister?!"
 "Hah, a spirited girl. Don't worry... She's a shrine maiden 
 in our rituals now. Perhaps we can replace your sister with 
 you... But that's no longer neccessary. All the rituals have 
 been performed. The final one has just been completed."
 "No more rituals?"
 "Not as far as I know."
 "Hmpf! Auntie Meiphen will come to my rescue, you'll see!"
 "Ah yes, your friends. I'll deal with them...permanently!
 Hahahaha!"

 Homei is dragged away.

 "Dammit! Let go of me, you bastards!"
 "Varla, now what? Won't she give us any troubles?"
 "I don't think so, Deyulan...We have nothing to be afraid 
 of!"


 LATER, SAIKUNG-QUARTERS


 Iren's ID pass works perfectly, and by EV, the threesome 
 arrives in the Saikung area. Because they find nothing in 
 the demon religion temple, Tienllen, Meiphen and Kashu head 
 for the forest. It appears that Iren was right - it's like 
 nature has gone completely insane in the humid forest. And 
 it's inhabitants aren't very friendly, either. Solids, 
 Hammers and Whips are frightening opponents, and Kashu's 
 heavy weaponry and bionic powers come in extremely handy 
 here. Soon, they discover an abandoned building, where they 
 see the shape of a black panther fleeing inside. In the 
 building, there are other, stronger opponents like the 
 deadly Colonies and Headhunters. But in the end, they manage
 to reach the rooftop of the building. There isn't much time
 to enjoy the view. On the rooftop they find a cuffed Homei, 
 guarded by a giant, dangerous-looking black panther!

 "Homei!"

 When Meiphen attempts to get closer, the panther starts
 growling, and prepares to attack.

 "I hope he's not hungry..."
 "I just hope this won't get us into any troubles with the 
 SPCA.", Kashu says.
 "This is not the time for jokes! Attack!"

 The three of them attack the panther, who resists furiously. 
 In the end, he flees from his three opponents. He jumps off 
 the rooftop, wounded.

 "He's getting away!"
 "Homei!"

 Meiphen runs towards Homei and uncuffs her.

 "Thanks, miss Meiphen..."
 "Thank God your allright. We'll take you back home."
 "I'm okay..."
 "And don't you dare running away again!"
 "S-sorry..."
 "This is no time for apologies, let's go..."

 De threesome leave the abandoned building.


 LATER, ILLUSION CITADEL

 Lee, Shawmei en her servants walk through the corridors of 
 the Citadel. Suddeny, Lee stops. He has a strange 
 premonition...

 "What's the matter, Lee?"

 Suddenly, a shape shoots towards them and hits one of the 
 servants. A loud scream, and the body of the unfortunate 
 girl falls down on the floow, cleft in half. Before them,
 a familiar winged shape appears.

 "Noi?! Is that you, Noi?!"
 "Stay behing me!", Lee hisses.
 "No! Don't kill her! Noi, why..."

 Noi hovers before them, growling menacingly.

 "Noi, it's me... have you forgotten about me?"
 "G-..."
 "You recognize me?"
 "S-shawmei..."

 Noi appears to calm down, and wants to flie towards them, 
 but suddenly, she shrieks in agony. Her body glows up like
 a hot coal and an instant later, her charred remains are on 
 the floor. Behind them, Lee hears a familiar voice.

 "What's all this fuss about, Lee?"

 A gorgeous-looking woman in a long white robe walks towards
 them.

 "What?! Did you kill her?"
 "I just cleaned up the results of a failed experiment, 
 that's all. She wasn't supposed to live, anyway."
 "That girl was a friend of mine, not an enemy!"
 "An experiment, that's all..."
 "But...she was a living being!"
 "Lee...I hope that being with this girl isn't making you 
 soft..."

 Lee is silent.

 "Earthly Paradise! If this is your idea of a paradise, you 
 can keep it!!"
 "Shawmei! To your room!!", Lee explodes.
 "Lee..."
 "Come, shrine maiden..."

 One of the servants takes the crying Shawmei back to her 
 room.

 "You've got absolutely no tact at all, have you Yama?"
 "I'm just making sure that you don't neglect your duties, 
 that's all, Lee..."
 Yama leaves a pensive Lee behind.


 OUTER DOWNTOWN, SHUE'S PLACE.

 Meiphen,  Tienllen,  Kashu  and  Homei  have returned from 
 the Saikung Quarter.

 "Here we are...and this time, you'll stay put, Homei!"
 "But miss Meiphen, I wanna come with you!"
 "One-man operations on a battlefield are always dangerous. 
 It's better to fight as a team. Especially in a 
 guerrilla-war like this one!"
 "Kashu..."
 "Enough talking! Go and chase that black panther, now that 
 the trail is still fresh!", Shue hisses.
 "I saw there is a secret entrance to the jungle behind the 
 shrine. You can follow the trail from there", Homei tells 
 them.
 "Go for it, guys....I'll keep an eye on Homei."
 "That's exactly what worries me", Meiphen sighs.
 "What?!"
 "Never mind, Shue. Let's go!"

 There's a secret entrance behind the temple leading to the 
 forest, just as Homei told them. It doesn't take them long 
 to spot the blood-trail the wounded panther has left behind.
 Following it is easy and after a short walk, they meet...

 "Varla...."
 "You guys have some nerve dropping in here like this. Why
 this rudeness?"
 "Huh?"
 "You have violated the laws of nature!"
 "Nonsense!", Kashu shouts.
 "You people violate the laws of nature all the time. Have 
 you ever thought of that? It's only right that nature is now
 showing its fangs to protect her own territory... What 
 brings you here?"
 "W-we just want to...."
 "Don't let that witch trick you, Meiphen..."
 "Hahaha!  You'll die, all three of you! Your bodies will rot 
 away here. Your remains will be utterly destroyed!"

 Varla  en  Deyulan  attack. It appears that Deyulan is not 
 the only shapeshifter around. Varla is able to assume a 
 plant-shape, one that can cause great damage. And Deyulan in 
 his Panther-shape is still a tough match as well. But in the 
 end, both of them are defeated by the joined forces of 
 Kashu, Tienllen and Meiphen.

 De bodies of the young woman and the panther are reduced to 
 dust, leaving only the Darsa-statue...

 "Sad that it has to end this way for them..."
 "Was it right to kill them?"
 "You know we had to, Meiphen..."

 Tienllen picks up the precious statue. The seal is broken, 
 and the power of Trees flows through Tienllen's body, before 
 the statue is reduced to ash as well....

 "Let's go. There's no reason for us to stay here any 
 longer."
 The threesome leaves and the jungle is silent once more.


ILLUSION CITY - THE STORY


PART 5 - RESISTANCE WORKERS


 SIVA-NETWORK

 DATABASE
 SUBJECT: HEI TAO  (BLACKBLADES)
 RATING: PUBLIC   

 The Blackblades (or Inner Police) were called into being 
 after Hongkong's disaster by SIVA. Goal of the project was 
 the maintenance of public peace and order. Only individuals 
 specially selected by SIVA were allowed to join them. 
 Because of the limited number of Blackblades, the working 
 area of the Blackblades is limited to Hongkong's Inner area.
 The Outer has its own police force.

 Current commander-in-chief of the Blackblade police force
 is SIVA executive Dai Jishin. Location of the Blackblade HQ 
 is the eastern Inner city quarters.

 END OF FILE
 ===========

 - INTERLUDE : FAREWELL SHAWMEI -

 ILLUSION CITADEL

 In the great bedroom, only faintly illuminated by the 
 torches on the walls, Lee the Southern Demonlord kneels down 
 by the bed Shawmei is lying in. The girl appears lifeless, 
 and she's obviously in a weakened condition.

 "Why won't you eat anything, Shawmei? You're getting weaker 
 and weaker..."

 The girl shows no response.

 "Why don't you open your mouth? You can trust me. You MUST 
 live!"

 Shawmei slowly opens her eyes.

 "You've been very nice to me Lee, really..."
 "Shawmei..."
 "I will live on...but not in this world. I can no longer 
 bear all this..."
 "You don't want to live anymore?! But I need you!"
 "Lee... thank you for all you have done..."
 "Shawmei!"
 "My sister Homei...you must...trust...her...."

 Her head slumps back, and with a smile on her face, she 
 passes away peacefully...

 "Shawmei! This can't be!  Your soul can't have left this 
 world!!"

 Lee turns around, and notices that his two servants, Erfas 
 and Macgregor, are behind him.

 "Erfas, MacGregor! What are you doing here?"
 "Your whish is our command, master Lee..."
 "Yes, is there anything we can do for you?"
 "Do for me...hah! You can't undo death, can you? Not even I 
 can do that...My powers are useless!! What is happening 
 to me... This world, these people, it's all so confusing..."

 His eyes filled with tears, Lee leaves the room...


 OUTER DOWNTOWN, SHUE'S HOUSE

 Shue, Tienllen and Meiphen are in the living room, when
 Homei enters suddenly, from the bedroom.

 "Homei..."
 "I'm hearing my sister's voice... I'm here, sister!"

 In  the room, a floating translucent shape appears. 
 It approaches Homei.

 "Homei!"
 "Sister!"
 "Homei, you must unite with me. Lee needs your help...."
 "Sister!"

 De shape appears to merge with Homei. Her body starts 
 glowing strangely.

 "Thank you all, for helping my sister...."

 Homei speaks, but with a different voic...

 "Who's talking? Homei?"
 "She has been possessed. Shawmei's spirit was transferred to 
 Homei's body..."
 "Is that you, Shawmei?"
 "That's hard to tell now..."

 Homei/Shawmei talks to them again.

 "I don't know what the Demon-King is up to, but his power 
 has to be stopped! For centuries, an ancient power has been 
 dormant in our family. Now, it is about to awaken. When it 
 does, I will join you in combat. I will prove to be a 
 valuable ally. But an even more important ally you will find 
 among the ranks of the Octavirate..."

 Then, the spell seems broken. The glow dies out and Homei is 
 just a little, vulnerable girl once more. With a moan, she 
 collapses.

 "Homei!"

 Shue examines her.

 "She's gone comatose. But if what she said is true, we don't
 have to worry."
 "An ally...In the Octavirate..."
 "What do you think, Tienllen?"

 SAME TIME, DOWNTOWN, DOC'S WEAPON STORE

 There are people, for which the turn of events after the 
 Hongkong-disaster didn't mean poverty or sorrow, but profit.
 Doc is one of these persons. Next to alcoholics and drugs, 
 weapons are not just hot items in the Outer slums...they are 
 a vital need.

 But as he himself puts it,  profit isn't the reason why he 
 set up his weapon store in Outer Downtown...he just enjoys
 rigging up all kinds of "deadly stuff". Some people admire 
 him for this. Others just think he's a creep, and keep away 
 from his shop (the mayority by far). But then again, Doc 
 (nobody knows his real name) isn't the type of person you'd 
 trust at first sight. No-one knows if he's had a great part 
 of his body "rebuilt" with mecha-parts because of injuries 
 and mutilations, or that he just thought it looked cooler.
 kan niemand het ook echt iets schelen....

 "I've almost finished. Just making some slight 
 modifications..."

 Doc is busy in his workshop after the store. Kashu, one of 
 his best customers, is lying helplessly on one of the 
 benches. His limbs are on another one...

 "I hope you know what you're doing, Doc..."
 "Soon, you'll be as good as...no better than new. Trust 
 me..."
 "Ofcourse I trust you..."
 "Really? Well, you don't seem to have much choice at the 
 moment, right? Heheheheh..."

 Doc's steel face-mask doesn't show any emotion, but for 
 Kashu, it seems to be grinning, when Doc reaches into his 
 toolbox, and grabs a vicious-looking laser-cutter and slowly 
 approaches him...

 "H-hey...."
 "Oh? You're not getting scared, are you?"
 "N-no...I know you wouldn't hurt me..."
 "Yes ofcourse. I just wanted to test if you are a coward...
 Hahaha...apparently you are...."

 LATER, SHUE'S HOUSE

 "Kashu, where were you?"
 "At Doc's, for some little improvements..."
 "Something weird happend to Homei. But that can wait. Iren 
 called. She needs you at Shangri-la, as soon as possible!"

 The trio leaves Shue's hous. Kashu is the last one to leave.

 "Kashu... be careful!"
 "Sure old-timer, why are you so concerned, all of a sudden?"
 "Kashu...I have a premonition...I foresee your death!"
 "My death?! Hah, old-timer... I'm afraid I have to 
 disappoint you. I have no intention of dying yet!"

 Kashu leaves.


 A LITTLE LATER, SHANRI-LA CLUB, VIP-ROOM

 When the three of them have taken a seat, Iren explains:

 "I want you to help me with a mission. For free, naturally."
 "What's it about?"
 "We need to rescue a prisoner from the Blackblade-HQ in the 
 eastern part of the city. Alive, ofcourse."
 "The Blackblade-HQ? But we don't want to get into any 
 trouble with the police.."
 "The things you've done so far, weren't exactly legal 
 either, remember?"
 "Who is this prisoner?"
 "His name is Dave Holland. You know him?"
 "Yes... Brave fellow", Kashu says.
 "Go to the resistance hideout in the Saikung-area. They'll 
 give you a full briefing there."
 "The resistance? Iren, are you involved with them?"
 "Who did you think provides the resistance with information?
 I'm one of Tao Ho's most important allies...."
 "I see..."
 "The Blackblade commander is the Eastern Demonlord, Dai. But 
 my informant tells me this is the best time to make a move. 
 Dai isn't in the HQ right now. The Blackblades have been 
 pretty busy lately. The Diuchang-area, where the HQ is 
 located, has been cut off completely from the rest of the 
 city. But I believe there is another route to get there."
 "Have they found out that we killed Varla yet?"
 "Her death has been recorded as a suicide...The Saikung-area 
 has been partially closed to the public."
 "Did you find out anything more about Lee?"
 "It seems as if he's been relieved from his duties. It is 
 rumoured that he's been put on house arrest after the shrine 
 maiden's death."

 Iren gets up.

 "But we talked long enough. Go to the garage in the 
 Saikung-area. The man over there will ask you: 'Don't you 
 know that time is money?'. Your answer should be 'Burton, 
 let me see someone else..."
 "A password?"
 "Yes, that's still the easiest and safest way. But now, you 
 must go. I hope you'll succeed!"


 A while later, Tienllen, Kashu and Meiphen leave the club. 
 The EV takes them to Saikung in now time, where they find 
 the person they're looking for. The password is correct, and
 he let's them pass. Inside, they meet an old man, sitting on 
 a futon among some heavily-armed resistance soldier. Kashu 
 approaches the old man.

 "Welcome..."
 "Master Tao Ho, I'm glad you're still in good health."
 "Thanks. I haven't had more bad luck than usual, lately. 
 Hahaha..."
 "Tienllen, Meiphen, this is..."
 "Ah, these are Shue's pupils. I hope I can trust them. I am 
 Tao Ho, leader of the resistance..."
 "He used to be the prinicipal of Kowloon University", Kashu 
 adds.
 "That has been quite a while..."
 "Mr. Tao. Iren said you could give us information on our 
 mission."
 "Good. I'll tell you what I know. As you already know, our 
 organization was set up to oppose SIVA systematically. We 
 frequently have conflicts with the Blackblades. Your mission 
 will be to release one of our memeber, who has been arrested 
 by them."
 "Holland, isn't it?"
 "Right. According to our info, they're keeping him 
 imprisoned in the Blackblade-HQ in the eastern part of the 
 city. You should go to the underlying Outer area, Tiuchang. 
 My associates there will tell you how to get inside that 
 building."
 "Why is Holland so important to you?"
 "Let's just say that he's in possession of important 
 information about our group, which could be very dangerous 
 for us, would the police find out. He has to be released as 
 soon as possible."

 Tao gestures to one of his men, and a wall slides away.

 "That passage leads to an underground passageway to the 
 Tiuchang-area. Use these special goggles. We marked the 
 right way with a special kind of paint, which can only be 
 seen through those goggles. And watch out. Those tunnels 
 haven't been used for quite a while, and I've heard there 
 are strange creatures hunting down there..."
 "Thanks for the warning..."
 "Good luck!"

 The underground sewer passages are far from safe indeed. 
 Though the arrows indicate the proper directions, they meet 
 several monster species. cunning Informers and deadly 
 Murderers. After a hellish journey through the sewers, they 
 reach an other resistance hideout. A little boy approaches 
 them..."

 "Mummy,mummy!
 "Huh?!"
 "I didn't realize you and Tienllen had gotten that close 
 already, Meiphen..."
 "Shut up, Kashu!"

 One of the resistance people calls the boy back.

 "Come here, Pilon.That woman isn't your mother...So you have 
 finally arrived..."
 "Are you in charge here?"
 "Yes, my name is Lao."
 "How can we get in the Blackblade-HQ?"
 "You're pretty to the point,aren't you? I'll explain....
 You will fly to the HQ in your own private Spinner. To 
 enable this, we prepared you some Blackblade-disguises. 
 There is a slight problem, however: we only have two 
 suits..."
 "Meiphen, you stay here..."
 "Wait a sec, Kashu!"
 "I'm afraid that you're the one to be staying here, Kashu. 
 We couldn't find a Blackblade-uniform your size..."
 "Time for a diet, Kashu?"
 "Shut up, Meiphen!"
 "First, you'll have to get past the guards at the Spinner 
 relay station. I hope you'll return Holland safely. Good 
 luck!

 When Tienllen and Meiphen have changed their clothes, they 
 leave for the Spinner relay station. Tienllen fools the 
 guards into believing that he's a colonel on a special 
 secret mission. The guards buy it and Tienllen and Meiphen 
 take a Spinner and fly straight to the Blackblade-HQ...

PART 6 - THE DEMONIC LABYRINTH


 SIVA-NETWORK

 SIVA PERSONNEL DATA
 SUBJECT: PERSONAL FILE DAI
 RATING: CONFIDENTIAL
 NAME           : DAI JISHIN
 ALIAS          : "EASTERN DEMONLORD"
 GENDER         : MALE
 OCCUPATION     : COMMANDER BLACKBLADE-POLICEFORCE
 AGE            : UNKNOWN  
 WHEREABOUTS    : UNKNOWN  

 Dai is very mysterious personality. He shies publicity, has 
 no close associates and is seldom found in his office in the 
 Blackblade HQ, though he does command this police force.
 Most of the Blackbladeofficers are trained by him personal- 
 ly. He is exceptionally strong and can handle a sword very 
 well. It is said that he possesses magic abilities and mas- 
 ters the powers of the Earth.

 END OF FILE
 ===========


 INNER, EASTERN CITY QUARTERS, BLACKBLADE-HQ

 "Halt!"

 The harsh voice of the guard, positioned on the rooftop of 
 the Blackblade-HQ, makes Meiphen stop immediately. Though 
 she's wearing a Blackblade uniform, covering her face as 
 well, she starts feeling a little nervous.

 "Papers, please?"

 At that moment, Tienllen approaches, after having locked up
 their Spinner craft.

 "What seems to be the problem?"
 "Colonel! This man is acting extremely insolent to me!"
 "I just need to see your ID for a moment..."
 "Lieutenant...You shouldn't spend so much attention to women.
 Especially not to this woman. You wouldn't be able to tame
 her anyway...hahaha!"
 "Colonel!"
 "Oh,man...Very well,proceed."

 After a brief search through the building,Meiphen and Tien- 
 llen find the prison complex of the Blackblade-HQ. Unfortu- 
 nately, there is a problem; all cells, including Holland's
 cell, are secured with impenetrable laser-gates. Soon they 
 find out that these gates,like the cameras, are con- 
 trolled from a single central control room. Tienllen and 
 Meiphen enter this control room, where they face two sol- 
 diers. Tienllen decides to bluff his way out of this...

 "What?! Are you telling me that you still haven't executed 
 my order?!"
 "I beg your pardon, sir?"
 "The cell-deactivation order!"
 "Are you certain this isn't a misunderstanding,sir? We 
 didn't receive any command of that kind, colonel..."
 "It's been delayed?! When I get my hands on that damn 
 liaision officer... Open Holland's gate, right now! I take 
 full responsibility!"
 "Er...sorry colonel, but we're not allowed to do that."
 "Don't you see the colonel is in a hurry? He's on a special 
 mission!"
 "Well...allright then. You, open that cell!"
 "Done! I deactivated the laser-gate."
 "Thank you for your help, lieutenant. You did the right 
 thing. But next time, try to follow your orders without 
 hesitation."
 "Thanks for the warning,sir..."

 Tienllen and Meiphen leave for the cell, where Holland can 
 finally be rescued. However, there's something very odd 
 about him: he seems to talk nothing but utter nonsense... 
 Apparently he has been drugged. Because they don't have time 
 for a fingerprint ID-check to see this is really Holland, 
 they decide to go for it.

 Unfortunately, they can't get far without being discovered. 
 A guard notices Holland, and Tienllen and Meiphen have to 
 fight their way out of the building.In the nick of time, 
 they manage to reach their Spinner and escape...

 Holland is dropped off at the resistance hideout and after 
 that, Tienllen and Meiphen can finally return home...

- INTERLUDE : LOVERS (3) -

             THAT NIGHT, INNER CENTRE, SIVA TOWER

 The Hongkong-metropoles stretches out like a sea of lights. 
 SIVA Tower is the highest building in Hongkong, and the view 
 one has from within the peak of the Tower is truly 
 impressive... Dai and Yama stand cuddled together, watching 
 this ocean of light, in the luxurious office in the tower 
 summit.

 "Dai... I'm worried..."
 "Don't worry, you can leave everything to me."
 "As members of the Octavirate we have so little time for 
 each other. We hardly ever spend time together..."
 "When our plan has been carried out, this will 
 change,darling. Then, we will be happy together..."
 "Oh Dai, you are so reliable and strong... Dai, let me give 
 you this pendant. As long as you wear it, we'll always be in 
 touch. When you're in danger, no matter when, I will 
 know..."
 "Thank you..."
 "Dai..."
 "Yama..."


 - INTERLUDE : LEE'S CHOICE -

 A LITTLE LATER, ILLUSION CITADEL

 The Citadel's Sanctuary is, as usual, filled with silence. 
 Suddenly, the sound of rapid, approaching footsteps is 
 audible. Lee enters the dark vault.

 "Demon-king! Demon-king!"

 The dark appearance takes shape.

 "EASY NOW, LEE... WHAT IS THE MATTER?"
 "Demon-King. Tell me, what's this Paradise on Earth you're 
 always talking about, like? Why do the people keep resisting 
 it?! Why did Shawmei have to die?!"
 "WHY ARE YOU SO EXCITED, LEE? HAVE YOU LOST YOUR CONFIDENCE 
 IN ME? REALLY, THE DEATH OF A MERE MORTAL GIRL IS NO REASON 
 FOR YOU TO BE SHOCKED, IS IT?"
 "A mere girl?! Demon-king! I-I..."
 "I UNDERSTAND. SO THAT'S HOW IT IS... LEE, I CANNOT AFFORD 
 YOU MAKING A BLUNDER AT THIS PIVOTAL MOMENT! I WILL LET YAMA 
 TAKE OVER YOUR DUTIES!"
 "What?! Demon-king! You're right, I did make a blunder... By 
 accepting you as my king! You are no longer my master!!"

 Lee makes some gestures and a firebolt sizzles away towards 
 the Demon-king...and falls apart without doing any damage.

 "THAT WAS A VERY UNWISE THING TO DO..."
 "B-but how..."
 "SO YOU DARE TO TURN AGAINST ME, LEE...THEN LISTEN TO 
 THIS... 'LET THE GATE OF SWEETNESS BE OPENED! HEAR ME! LET 
 THE PAST BE FORGOTTEN! YOUR TRUE SHAPE IS THE BLUE LOTUS!!'"

 These words appear to have a strange effect on Lee's body. 
 It starts moving beyond his control.

 "W-what's happening to my body?!"
 "THE ANCIENT ONES WHO CREATED YOU FORESAW THE POSSIBILITY 
 OF A SITUATION LIKE THIS. THEY ENGINEERED IN YOU A
 "FORCE-COMMAND"-ABILITY, WHICH ABLES THE ONE WHO PRONOUNCES 
 THESE WORDS TO LET YOUR BODY DO ANYTHING HE PLEASES. I 
 CONTROL YOU UTTERLY. I WILL MAKE SURE THAT THIS WAS YOUR 
 LAST MISTAKE!"
 "I didn't make any mistake! You may control my body, but you 
 will never possess my spirit!"
 "AS YOU LIKE IT... BUT NOW, ALLOW ME TO TAKE BACK THAT WHICH
 IS MINE..."
 The Demon-king raises his arm and something is ripped away 
 from Lee's anguished body: the Darsa-statue slowly floats 
 towards the Demon-king.

 "YOUR DARSA...BY TAKING IT, I HAVE HALVED YOUR POWER. AND 
 NOW, THE DIMENSIONAL CELL IS WAITING FOR YOU..."

 After a gesture of the Demon-king, Lee vanishes.

 "WELL, THAT'S ANOTHER PROBLEM TAKEN CARE OF..."


 EARLY IN THE MORNING, OUTER DOWNTOWN, SHANGRI-LA CLUB

 Iren has called Tienllen, Meiphen and Kashu. She seems 
 rather excited.

 "Come! Hurry up! You have done something very stupid!"
 "What? But we..."
 "Sit down, please. It will be clear to you in a moment."

 When the trio has taken a seat, Iren pushes a switch. The 
 great viewscreen on the wall is activated and a moment 
 later, the picture focuses. The face of Dai appears on the 
 screen.

 "Ladies and gentlemen... My name is Dai, memeber of the 
 Demon-octavirate. I know that you've gone through an awful 
 lot of trouble for nothing. Coming all that way to my HQ, 
 while I wasn't even present to welcome you... Why don't we 
 arrange a new meeting? You can find me in the resistance 
 hideout in Tiuchang. The place is a little deserted right 
 now, I'm afraid..."

 The image flickers and fades out.

 "Wow!"
 "After I received this message, all radio contact with the 
 Tiuchang-hideout was somehow cut off. We didn't receive a 
 single message from them anymore."
 "But if Dai knows the location of that hideout..."
 "I know what you're thingking. That Holland we released, was 
 an impostor!"
 "Boy, is my face red!"
 "No time for excuses now! We gotta do something! Someone has 
 to go over there
 and find out what happened. I hope they haven't all been 
 busted by the Blackblades..."
 "But what if it's a trap?"
 "That's a risk you'll have to take..."

 Tienllen, Meiphen and Kashu leave the bar.

 A LITTLE LATER, RESISTANCE HQ IN SAIKUNG

 "You probably heard what happened already. The 
 Tiuchang-hideout has been competely destroyed and everyone 
 has been slaughtered. Mortimer went over with an 
 investigation team."
 "It's obvious they were attacked by monsters, but I'm 
 certain that SIVA was behind it. Oh, and they left this 
 note."

 Mortimer gives the piece of paper to Tienllen.

 "'I hereby invite you to my underground labyrinth. I am 
 looking forward to a good fight. Signed: Dai Eastern 
 Demonlord'"
 "There was a big hole in a wall there. That could be the 
 entrance to that labyrinth. Sad, that this had to happen..."
 "Indeed... We still have to bury all the victims... Are you 
 going?"
 "Yes, let's go, Tienllen! There's an underground maze we 
 have to visit..."
 "Be careful!""

 After having been throught the sewers again, our team 
 arrives at a totally demolished resistance hideout. The huge 
 crack in one of the walls is hard to miss...

 Behind it, as expected, is a vast maze, inhabiting not only 
 dangerous Torturers and Betrayeers, but also hiding 
 bewitched items. The teleporters they encounter throughout 
 the place don't make matters easier. But in the end, our 
 threesome enters what appears to be the centre of the maze. 
 A great, temple-like hall with monsterous statues on both 
 sides of the central aisle. A tall shape approaches to meet 
 them...

 "Dai..."
 "I am,indeed."

 Kashu steps forward.

 "You haven't changed much since that day...20 years ago."
 "Who are you?"
 "Have you forgotten me? Recall the day of the Disaster..."
 "Yes...I remember a warrior with your face..."
 "Now we can finally finish what we started 20 years ago!"
 "Hah! But why are your 2 friends so shy? Let them come a 
 little closer..."
 "Tienllen, Meiphen, watch out! He's very powerful!"
 "Ah, you do remember. Now, it's time for some 
 entertainment!"

 In one fluent movement, Dai throws aside his cloak. A long, 
 shiny object emerges from the ground before him and jumps 
 into his hand: Destroyer, his fearsome Sword of the Earth...

 Kashu was right: Dai is a dangerous opponent indeed. Not 
 only does he use dangerous flame-spells, but he's also able 
 to transform into a tiger and increase his offensive power 
 even more. Destroyer seems to have a life of its own and 
 attacks the trio with deadly whirling attacks... Only 
 Tienllen's newly acquired spells and Kashu's heavy weapons 
 are finally able to get the better of Dai.

 "Y-Yama! Your pendant can release its effect now..."

 Suddenly, a woman's voice sounds.

 "Hahaha...poor Dai... The power of my pendant will come into 
 effect now, indeed. Hi,everyone! I am Yama, member of the 
 demon-Octavirate. I'm sorry I cannot meet you in person. The 
 time has come to deal with your for good. Farewell!"

 An ominous, pulsating light seems to fill the pendant in 
 Dai's hand.

 "You must survive this!"
 "Kashu?"

 Kashu grabs the pendant without hesitation.

 "Farewell,friends!"
 "Kashu! No!!"

 Kashu runs to the room behind the hall, with the pendant, 
 where they lose sight of him. One second later, the hall is 
 shaken by an enormous explosion. The ceiling in the hindmost 
 part of the hall gives way, and great chunks of debris crash 
 down, blocking the entrance through which Kashu 
 disappeared...for good.

 Tienllen and Meiphen are overcome with grief, but life goes 
 on... Meanwhile, Dai's body has dissolved. Only his body 
 armor is left now. Quickly, Tienllen takes the Darsa of 
 Earth. After that, they leave this place of death as soon as 
 they can...

PART 7 - METAL AREA


 SIVA NETWORK

 SIVA PERSONNEL FILES
 SUBJECT: PERSONAL DATA METALQUEEN
 RATING: CONFIDENT

 NAME           : UNKNOWN 
 ALIAS          : "METALQUEEN"
 GENDER         : F
 AGE            : UNKNOWN 
 OCCUPATION     : PRESIDENT "FAST LANE"-STEELWORKS
 WHERABOUTS     : INNER INDUSTRIAL AREA

 The Steelqueen is without any doubt the most mysterious 
 member of the Demon Octavirate. Her true name, origins or 
 other personal data are unknown. Few have ever seen her 
 face, for she has the odd habit of using metal face-masks, 
 covering her face entirely. Known is, that she cares little 
 about other people. She's obsessed with machines, smooth 
 metal surfaces and robots. Among her servants are 3 battle- 
 robots which mean a great deal to her. She considers Raiden, 
 Sumeragi and Kurogane her best friends.

 END OF FILE  
 ===========

 SIVA NETWORK

 SIVA PERSONNEL FILES
 SUBJECT: PERSONAL DATA ARK
 RATING: CONFIDENTIAL 

 NAME           : ARK LIGHTNING
 ALIAS          : "THUNDER-EMPRESS"
 GENDER         : F
 AGE            : UNKNOWN 
 OCCUPATION     : CHIEF "FAST LANE" POWER SUPPLY    
 WHERABOUTS     : INNER INDUSTRIAL AREA

 Apart from her fiery temper, little is known about this 
 punk-girl. Recently, she started co-operating closely with 
 the Metalqueen. She really earns her nickname, won't ever 
 hesitate to use her destructive lightning-powers.

 END OF FILE  
 ===========

 - INTERLUDE : AN UNCERTAIN PARTNERSHIP -

 INNER  INDUSTRIAL AREA, METALQUEEN'S PRIVATE CHAMBERS         

 The illustrious Metalqueen is trying on her new bodysuit 
 with matching facemask, aided by some of her servants. Ark 
 Lightning is watching.

 "A new mask, again?"
 "Don't try to be funny! This is serious! I've just talked 
 to Meshmer. We're probably the next targets!"
 "So what? We've got nothing to fear from a bunch of 
 rebels. There's only three of them..."
 "Still,I think it's about time we put Kurogane and the 
 other robots into action. Important events are about to 
 happen, children..."
 "Yeah,yeah,sure... That suit suits you, milady."
 "Thank you for the compliment. Now I must go. I can't keep 
 Kurogane waiting..."

 The Metalqueen exits the room.

 "Yuck! Why do I have to put up with her, of all people? 
 Conceited brat! That damn Meshmer...", Ark mutters.

 The Metalqueen looks back.

 "Did you say something?"
 "Oh, nothing..."

 They both leave the room.


 SAME TIME, OUTER DOWNTOWN, SHUE'S RESIDENCE

 Shue is at his usual spot when Tienllen and Meiphen enter.

 "Shue..."
 "Yes, I know. He's dead..."

 All three of them are silent for a moment, to commemorate 
 their brave friend who has just been killed....Suddenly, 
 Homei enters the room.

 "Homei!"
 "I...I gotta go...Lee's whereabouts..."

 Before Tienllen, Meiphen and Shue can do a thing, they see 
 Homei change into a big white wolf and disappearing in an 
 instance.

 "It finally awakened...The ancestral power in her blood..."
 "But where did she go?"
 "You think she went straight to Lee?"
 "I don't think so. I still sense her presence in the vici- 
 nity. Though she didn't take a regular route..."
 "She went to the Shangri-la bar?"
 "That would be a way to find out something about Lee's 
 whereabouts, wouldn't it?"
 "Let's go,Tienllen!"
 "Wait up! I'm coming with you. I'm better at seeing 
 through that girl's power than you are..."

 LATER, SHANRI-LA BAR

 It's unusually quiet in the disco. The band has left, just 
 like all the regular guests, who could usually be found here 
 day and night. Iren and Flamenco are at the bar.

 "You want a drink?"
 "Did you see Homei lately?"
 "She asked me about Lee's whereabouts..."
 "You know where she is now?"
 "Naturally. That's my job. Flamenco..."

 The bartender gives Tienllen another ID-pass.

 "This is an 'Fast Lane'-worker's license."
 "She went to the Fast Lane truck stop in Saikung."
 "Fast Lane? What's she doing in an industrial area?"
 "She asked me where Lee could be. The industrial area is 
 very important to SIVA, and it may very well be that a VIP 
 like Lee will show up there."
 "What? That's the best you could come up with? I wouldn't 
 call that reliable information..."
 "Well...Since Dai's death, the Blackblade-police force is 
 slowly desintegrating. As it was one of my most important 
 sources of information..."
 "Iren...did you hear about Kashu?"
 "Yes. But you can't get too emotionally involved in this 
 kind of business, so..."
 "Let's leave, Tienllen!"

LATER ON, OUTER SAIKUNG-AREA, TRUCK-STOP 

 The underground Fast Lane truck-stop smells of gasoline 
 fumes and cigarette smoke. When Tienllen, Meiphen and Shue 
 arrive at the spot, a familiar person awaits them.

 "Homei!"
 "Miss Meiphen!"
 "This is the last time you leave on your own in such a 
 reckless way! No matter what powers you have..."
 "Sorry. But I thought you'd understand. I gotta go and 
 help Lee."
 "You want to help the Southern Demonlord?
 "Why?"
 "I don't know. I just have the feeling that it is important
 to help Lee..."
 "Shawmei told us we'd find a powerful ally among the 
 Octavirate. Could it be Lee?"
 "Lee, a rebel?"
 "Why not? According to Iren's information, he was put into 
 house-arrest, right?"
 "Yeah,but is it reliable? That Lee..."
 "Actually, Lee is a very gentle person."
 "Did Shawmei tell you that?"
 "Well,I hope she's right. Tienllen, take Homei with you. 
 She will be a powerful ally. I will return home now. Be 
 careful!"

 Shue leaves.

 "Now what?"
 "Iren said it was nearly impossible for normal citizens to 
 enter the industril area. Fortunately, I met this guy..."

 Tienllen and Meiphen notice a man, who has been waiting in 
 the distance. It's a sturdy guy, wearing an Fast Lane 
 worker's suit. He drops a cigarette stump and grinds it 
 under his boot.

 "Who are you? Can you get us past the security control?"
 "The young lady is right. Citizens aren't allowed there. 
 But let me look at your faces..."
 "Well?"
 "I know you... Aren't you those terrorists, who are 
 butchering all SIVA-executives one by one?"
 "Err,yes we are..."
 "Tienllen!"
 "Hah, I knew it... But you can trust me. But only for a 
 favor! I want you to destroy Sumeragi!"
 "Who's that?"
 "Sumeragi is one of the Metalqueen's robots. That dirty 
 monster has killed someone very dear to me..."
 "Your girlfriend?"
 "Yes! I'll never see her again..."
 "Okay, it's a deal. You take us inside the industrial 
 area, and we'll avenge you."
 "Really?! Thanks! Oh yeah...my name is Tetsu. I'll take us 
 to our destination..."

 A giant Fast Lane monster-truck comes rumbling along. They 
 all enter, and Tetsu manages to get Tienllen, Meiphen and 
 Homei past the security check of the Chenglong industrial 
 area. At the entrance of the underground steelworks, he 
 halts. He'll wait there until the three of them have 
 accomplished their mission. They enter the dark factory...

 As expected, they meet plenty of resistance inside, of 
 various aggressive robot types attacking them. They manage 
 to fight their way to a great storehouse, crammed with 
 crates and boxes. In the distance, they hear the pounding of 
 heavy machinery... Eventually, they find a door which leads 
 them to a frightening scene.

 A giant battle-android is grasping a man, who is bleeding 
 from several wounds, with its metal claws. The man is still 
 alive however - the battle-robot hasn't finished its cruel 
 duty yet. Next to the robot, a young woman is watching with 
 a sadistic smile on her face.

 "Look Raiden, we've got visitors!"

  The robot, who is called Raiden apparently, flings away 
 its hapless victim.

 "That man! It's one of Lee's servants!"

 The wounded man tries to rise up and speaks with a faint 
 voice.

 "I-I'm the demon nobleman Macgregor... I-I must f-find
 f-find...Erfas..."
 "Don't worry... I've already taken care of Erfas!"
 "You witch! D-Don't think you can get away with this! I'll 
 get you!"
 "Easy, Macgregor", Tienllen says, "Don't waste your 
 precious breath...Be quiet, and you'll live longer..."
 "N-no...please!"

 Ark steps forward, little charges of electricity shooting 
 from her fingertips.

 "You haven't got a chance against me! I am superior!"

 Ark does appear to outclass Tienllen, Meiphen and Homei. 
 Her lightning bolts are truly destructive, but Raiden is 
 also a very tough match. Fortunately, Tienllen now has 
 powerful Earth-magic at his disposal, also very destructive. 
 And Homei is now with them. In her wolf-shape, she delivers 
 fast and deadly blows. After a sparkling battle, Ark is 
 defeated. Quickly, Homei kneels down at the badly wounded 
 Macgregor's side.

 "Girl...you must trust Lee...He needs help..."
 "I know! But where is he?"
 "Down...M-metal....queen...."
 "Please, don't die..."
 "I-I cannot...die...go down...find...Lee..."
 "It's no use, he's beyond help."

 Tienllen has absorbed the Thunder Darsa in the mean time.

 "Tienllen...."
 "Yes, we lost him. A pity..."
 "We need to find the Metalqueen. She'll know where Lee 
 is..."

They leave Macgregor's body behind and use an industrial 
 elevator to descend into the deeper levels of the factory. 
 Ofcourse, they encounter more and deadlier robots here, as 
 well as running conveyer belts, which drive them totally 
 nuts. But after closer exemination, they manage to reach the 
 metal footbridge, taking them to the hindmost part of the 
 factory. Suddenly, a steel gate opens, and a shape steps 
 forward. Human, but they can only tell thid from its 
 movements. The shape is clad in a long cloak, with two large 
 metal shoulder-patches. The head is covered by a metal 
 robot-mask, revealing no facial expression whatsoever. 
 Behind this shape, two giant shadows loom up...two 
 battle-droids!

 "Are you the Metalqueen?"
 "You! You killed Raiden!"
 "Lee, where is Lee?!"
 "Raiden...you'll pay for his death! Kurogane, Sumeragi, 
 attack!"

 The two steel juggernauts step forward...

 The two battle-robots make Raiden look like a kid's toy. 
 The black Kurogane wields his giant sword as skillful as a 
 samurai and the apelike Sumeragi uses his long arms to 
 strike out devastatingly. The Metalqueen herself doesn't 
 join the battle, she's protected by the robots. Every now 
 and then, she replenishes the powerpacks of the robots. 
 After a long fight, both the battle machines have been 
 turned into sparkling heaps of scrapmetal. The Metalqueen 
 kneels down besides the remains of her steel companions.

 "Now I am all alone... Kurogane! Sumeragi!"

 Something seems to move in the heap of scrap. The robots 
 are still functioning. Slowly, a metal arm is lifted up.

 "What's she doing?!"
 "Sumeragi..."

 Suddenly, there's a roaring noise in the factory hall. One 
 of the heavy bulldozers that was parked there, is now 
 moving straight for the remnants of the robots...

 "T-Tetsu?"

 Homei steps back.

 "Back! Danger!"

 With a loud grinding noise, the buldozer crushes the heap 
 of metal. The Metalqueen's robots are gone forever.

 The bulldozer drives away with the driver - Tetsu - laughing 
 hysterically.

 Tienllen recovers quickly and tries walks towards the 
 Metalqueen. To their surprise, her metal face-mask has 
 dropped on the floor, revealing the face of a young, 
 handsome girl...

 Tienllen takes her roughly by the arm.

 "Lemme go, you bastard! You killed my best friends!!"

 Homei speaks up.

 "Tienllen, don't be too hard on her. She's still a kid! 
 What's your name?"

 "M-my name is Arya. I-I'm sorry my robots caused so much 
 deaths... They just tried to protect me - and I..."

 Arya breaks out in tears.

 Suddenly, Tienllen spots something among the debris of the 
 robots. A small statue that looks very familiar...

 "A Darsa! But that means...Arya wasn't the real keeper of 
 the power of Steel!"

 Tienllen takes up the statue, and his body absorbs the power 
 of another one of the eight Elements.

 "We're done here. We better leave."

 Arya's sobs have stopped. She looks determined again now.

 "If you want to leave, you better take my Wadatsumi. It's 
 parked very nearby."

 "Why don't you come with us, Arya."

 Arya agrees, and leads them to the Wadatsumi, the name of 
 her private spinner craft. In it, they leave the now 
 lifeless factory...

PART 8 - RED LOTUS

 SIVA NETWORK

 BLACKBLADE POLICE ARCHIVES  
 SUBJECT: TRANSFER-ORDER RYUKEI
 RATING: TOP-SECRET

 EMPLOYER     : MESHMER AKIM
 FOR          : HOMICIDE DEPT.
                LEADING OFFICER IN MURDER CASE FAY

 PRIORITY     : A
 CONTENTS     :

 "PLEASE EXECUTE FOLLOWING ORDERS AS SOON AS POSSIBLE:
 - CLOSING OF FAY'S MURDER CASE.
 - ISSUE OFFICIAL DEATH CERTIFICATE RYUKEI.
 - (SECRET) TRANSFER OF RYUKEI TO SUBMARINE BASE.
 - DISPOSE OF ALL DATA CONCERNING THIS CASE."

 ORDERS EXECUTED SUCCESFULLY.


 END OF FILE
 ===========


 SIVA-NETWORK

 DATABASE
 SUBJECT: MANDALA-PROJECT
 CLASS: TOP-SECRET

 The Mandala-project is part of the great SIVA-Network 
 project concerning the research for dimensional
 transfer. Chief researcher is Meshmer Akim.  Location: 
 SIVA submarine base. Aim of the project is the research
 of the possibilities of Virtual-Reality applications, 
 new Human-Computer interfaces and Bio-Digitizing. For
 this purpose, a new super-"Host" computer was developed:
 the VISHNU-01 (on a neural-network basis). Project still
 running.

 END OF FILE
 ===========

 SIVA-NETWORK

 SIVA PERSONNEL FILES
 SUBJECT: PERSONAL DATA MESHMER
 RATING: CONFIDENTIAL

 NAME          : MESHMER AKIM
 ALIAS         : "NORTHERN DEMONLORD"
 GENDER        : M
 AGE           : UNKNOWN  
 OCCUPATION    : PRESENT PRESIDENT SIVA ENTERPRISES
                 CHIEF SPECIAL NETWORK-PROJECTS
 WHEREABOUTS   : SUBMARINE BASE, NEW CENTRAL QUARTERS

 After Fay's death, Meshmer has taken over his position as
 president of SIVA, but his residence remained the SIVA 
 submarine base in Hongkong. Before Fay died, he had already 
 been entrusted with the supervision of the Special Network 
 Projects, research of the full possibilities of SIVA-
 Network. The Submarine base was crammed with state-of-the-art
 computer technology and built just for this research. Meshmer
 hardly ever leaves his base, and indulges in the incredible
 wealth his new position offers. Meshmer is an ambitious 
 egoist, only interested in how to improve his own position.
 He is said to master the powers of Water.

 END OF FILE  
 ===========

 - INTERLUDE : RYUKEI'S FATE -

 NEW MAIN QUARTERS, MESHMER'S ROOMS

 At this moment Meshmer, sitting in his room, resembles an 
 oriental prince. The entire room is decorated with expensive
 carpets and he himself is resting against a pile of soft 
 pillows, served by beautiful maids. Bored, he watches the 
 dazzling dance his girls perform before him. He has seen 
 this performance too often to really enjoy it any more...
 Though he's completely satisfied, physically, he's still 
 hungry...for power. But that will soon change...

 A young woman, one of Meshmer's servants, enters the room.

 "Master, we've got Fay's servant, Ryukei."
 "Good. Did she give you the cancellation code?"
 "No. We administered large amounts of drugs, but it hasn't
 had the slightest effect yet."
 "I see. Follow me."

 Mesher pushes a curtain aside and enters a small, less 
 luxurious room. There, sitting on a chair, is Ryukei, Fay's
 former aide. Though few would recognize her anymore now. The
 past days have been a hell of continual interrogation and 
 they left their traces. Judging from her glassy stare, she's 
 totally shrunk into herself...

 "So, you're still trying to resist us, Ryukei..."

 She remains silent, and her face shows no expression 
 whatsoever.

 "My girls didn't get you to talk yet. I'll explain you one
 more time: what  I need is Fay's personal Cancelling code to
 get rid of the Network blockade, which came into effect after
 his death. I need acces to SIVA Network! And therefore, I must
 have that code!"

 Ryukei still shows no response.

 "So you still refuse to talk? Don't you trust me?"

 Meshmer is starting to lose his patience. He hits Ryukei hard
 in the face several times. It's having no effect.

 "This is not the way... The drugs make her insensitive to pain,
 and she got accustomed to the drugs themselves, so they won't
 help either. But this will make you talk... This is a new type
 of experimental drug I developed myself. It'd even make a dead
 body talk! I would hate to use this on you, because the pro-
 cess is quite painful. Ryukei, who are you trying to protect
 here? Your lover is dead, don't you realize that?"

 Apparently, Ryukei doesn't realize anything, for she remains 
 silent.

 "Very well,give it to her..."
 "Yes,but..."
 "Do it!"
 "Okay..."

 The girl prepares a hypodermic, filled with a transparent
 liquid, she skillfully injects in Ryukei's arm... The effect
 soon shows. The body of Ryukei, tied to the chair, goes into
 heavy spasms, like she's being electrocuted. She starts panting
 like in an asthmatic fit. Meshmer watches, amused...

 "Well? Isn't this the ultimate trip? This sure beats usual
 drugs, doesn't it? In a few moments, you'll tell me EVERYTHING
 I want to know..."

 After some seconds, Ryukei's spasms stop, and she falls back
 into the chair gasping for breath....

 "Finished? I hope you're feeling well. Now, will you finally
 tell me what I want to know?"

 Ryukei starts stammering with a hoarse voice...

 "C-Cancellation..code..is....6,A.....9,2,3...7...2"
 "Good. I'll take care of her. You may leave."

 Meshmer's aide leaves the room. When Meshmer walks towards
 Ryukei, she starts talking again.

 "T-The girl...Mei..phen...Red...Lotus..."
 "Mmmm...Very interesting. I can use that info to my advantage.
 Now, let me give you your reward, Ryukei."

 He puts a gentle hand on her shoulder, and releases his power,
 only for a second. Ryukei's body briefly convulses and then
 stiffens for good.

 "This is my reward. You won't have to worry about anything any
 more...never again!"

LATER, MESHMER'S BEDROOM

 Yama enters the room.

 "Yama, you have arrived. I've got great news: I have the 
 cancellation code. We can get the Network fully online again
 at last."
 "Yeah, finally."
 "And I also have some another, interesting piece of informati-
  on for you."
 "What kind of information?"
 "You want me to tell you?"
 "Of course."
 "Perhaps I'll only give it to you if you offer something in
  return..."
 "Is it really that valuable?"
 "I believe so..."
 "Then tell me!"
 "Fine, but after we..."

 His kiss surprizes her, but she swiftly recovers.

 "Hahaha...so that was the reward you had in mind, silly boy...
 Why didn't you tell me right away?"
 "Yama..."

 With a giggle, Yama lowers her dress...

THAT NIGHT, SHUE'S HOUSE

 It's been a rough day. After our threesome have left Arya with
 Doc, they decided to hit the sack early. Tienllen went back to
 his appartment, Homei and Meiphen are staying at Shue's and
 sleep in the same room. Meiphen seems to be unable to get to
 sleep...

 "Are you asleep yet, Homei?"

 Homei shakes her head in response.

 "I can't get to sleep. We've got a great battle ahead of us
 and somehow I have a bad feeling about it."
 "Or is it because you're thinking about Mr. Tienllen?"
 "Why would I think about HIM?!"
 "Cuz you're in love with him, obviously!"
 "I'M NOT! Him and I are like brother and sister, that's all
 there is to it!"
 "Then why are you blushing?"
 "Oh... Go to sleep!"

 Minutes later, Homei is sound asleep - unlike Meiphen.
 Suddenly, she hears a faint voice, calling inside her head.
 
 "Red Lotus..."
 "What?! Who's that?!"
 "I've been waiting for you, Meiphen. Now, you will come to
 me..."
 "W-WHo IS this?!"
 "Listen to this! Let the gate of sweetness be opened! Hear me!
 Let the past be forgotten! Your true self is the RED LOTUS!!"
 
 After hearing these words, Meiphen is suddenly unable to move.
 She tries calling for help, but it's as if some unknown force
 is stopping her...
 Seconds later, a strange gelatinous substance appears on both
 sides of Meiphens bed. It moves as if it's alive. In the blink
 of an eye, the substance has covered the bed and Meiphen. For
 a second, the spell put on Meiphen is gone, and she manages a
 scream. Then, she vanishes without a trace, along with the
 slimy creature.
 
 Homei wakes up after Meiphen's final scream.

 "Miss Meiphen?! Anything wrong?! Miss Meiphen? Where are you?!"

 THAT SAME TIME, TIENLLEN'S APPARTMENT

 Tienllen once again floats through the empty Void he's visited
 so often in his dreams. And as before, he hears a voice. But
 this time, it's different. THIS voice, he knows for sure -
 it's Meiphen's!

 "Tienllen! Help me!!"
 "Meiphen? Where are you? What's the matter?"
 "Help me!! It's Meshmer, the Northern Demonlord! Help me!!"
 Her voice trails off.
 "Meiphen? Meiphen!!"

 An electronic chiming wakes him up, like last time.

 "It was just another dream...What's up , Freddy?"
 "Shue Wang on the phone, master."
 "Okay, I'll take his call..."
 "Yes, master."

 On the screen, Shue's worried face appears.

 "Tienllen! Meiphen has vanished! Without a trace!"
 "She probably went home for her make-up..."
 "Don't be foolish, get over here, right away!"
 "Was it Meshmer, the Northern Demonlord?"
 "What?!"
 "Never mind, I'm coming."

 Tienllen prepares his equipment in a jiffy and leaves for
 Shue's house. Meiphen gone... He's afraid to think of what
 might have happened to her. He tries to repress frightened
 thoughts. He will find her back...And he'll make Meshmer
 pay!

PART 9 - NETWORK

 OUTER DOWNTOWN, SHUE'S HOUSE

 Tienllen enters.

 "Tienllen!"
 "Meiphen, she's been..."
 "Homei heard her voice. She was calling for help."
 "It's my fault...I should have woken up to help her..."
 "No,it was my fault, Tienllen. I was off when it happened. I 
 shouldn't have left the house unguarded."
 "Don't you guys thing we'd better go looking for her instead 
 of talking?"
 "Help her,yes...the name of Meshmer, the Northern Demonlord."
 "You heard that name,too? I heard it in a dream..."
 "What do you think, Shue?"
 "It could be a trap..."
 "But we don't have any choice!"
 "Very well,let's go see Iren first."

 LATER, SHANGRI-LA BAR

 The disco is still quiet, except for Iren and Flamenco.

 "Welcome. What do you want?"
 "It's Meiphen. She vanished!"
 "And how can I help you?"
 "We need to know Meshmer's wherabouts."
 "Meshmer?  That's not easy. His base is the underwater city in the New
 Main Quarters. Flamenco, give me the passes for that area."

 Flamenco gives them the passes.

 "But these won't get you in the submarine base."
 "Isn't there some way to get in?"
 "There is.The unmanned SFT robot-trucks drive from and to 
 the submarine base to transport fish landed there. The Tolo- 
 harbour is in the New Main Quarters. There you'll find the 
 Tailong-bridge crossing the truck-highway. Jump down from 
 that bridge at the right moment, and you catch a free ride 
 to the submarine base.!"
 "Okay,we'll do that. By the way, did you close your disco 
 down?"
 "Yes. We're quitting. Hongkong is getting to dangerous for 
 us. SIVA is getting more and more unstable. Now that the 
 Blackblades have lost their power, they can no longer con- 
 trol the citizens. There's a revolt at hand... Te Demon 
 Faith has cancelled all its activities. And SIVA-Network has 
 been completely secluded for everyone. A special password is 
 required to input information. By the way, all sorts of 
 strange data is being uploaded on the Net lately. It doesn't 
 make any sense to me. I'm sure something is about to happen, 
 and I have a bad feeling about it!"


 A WHILE LATER, TOLO-HARBOUR

 The Wadatsumi has taken Tienllen, Homei and Shue to their 
 destination in a jiffy. The Tolo-harbour is an entire floa- 
 ting city with shops and even hotels which have been built 
 on the boats. But they're more interested in the Tailong- 
 bridge, under which the robot-trucks are passing with roa- 
 ring engines."

 "Do we really have to jump down here?"
 "I'm afraid so. Watch your timing. If you've watched the 
 previous truck closely, you'd have seen that it speeded down 
 from 300 km/h to 80 km/h under this bridge."
 "Still, quite a speed..."
 "It's not as if we have a choice or anything. Watch it, 
 there's the next one!"

 Fortunately, the trucks are rather long, so there is a 
 slight error margin for jumping. The three of them manage to 
 land at the right place, and the robot-controlled vehicle 
 takes them to the underwater base, which appears to be 
 totally desolate. Soon they discover an abandoned office, 
 leading to a great elevator. It takes them down...to the 
 ocean floor.


 - INTERLUDE : CYBERDIVE -

 THAT SAME MOMENT, SUBMARINE BASE

 Meshmer is in the middle of the Interface-centre of the giant 
 Neural Computer VISHNU. At last, the time of his triumph is 
 at hand. He designed this Mandala-system personally and now 
 that he has the code to enter SIVA-network, he can finally 
 find out what the Demon-King is doing there. He's almost 
 certain that this information will be the key to incredible 
 power. In the network, he will find the Way to Heaven, as 
 he's often heard the Demon-King mention.

 Meshmer holds up his knife, and cuts across the palm of his 
 own hand. His blood starts dripping onto the metal platform. 
 The system seems to come to life. VISHNU's thundering voice 
 echoes through the room.
  
 "NEURAL INTERFACE CONNECTED.DNA-VERIFICATION IN PROGRESS... 
 DNA VERIFIED. SUBJECT IS MESHMER AKIM."

 The computersystem starts operating completely now. Giant 
 connectors move and shift. Meshmer is visible no more by the 
 sophisticated machinery.

 "BIO-DIGITIZING IN PROGRESS... SWITCHING OVER TO HOST-MODE. 
 DIGITIZING LEVEL: 60-70-80-90-100 PERCENT.
 DIGITIZING COMPLETE. HOST-SUPERVISION OF ENTIRE SIVA NETWORK 
 ENABLED. LIFE-SUPPORT OF SUBJECT ENABLED."

 Static discharges occur all around the equipment.

 "SIVA NETWORK IS FULLY OPERATIONAL. SCANNING FOR NETWORK 
 VIRUSES AND HACKERS.... WARNING: ANOMALY IN SYSTEM 
 DISCOVERED! PREPARING FOR NETWORK DIVE..."

 UNDERWATER BASE...

 Meanwhile, the threesome has discovered that the base is a 
 lot larger than they'd expected... After using various 
 elevators, they arrive at a number of basins, which are used 
 by SIVA to give life to new underwater-creatures. Several of 
 those creatures are stalking around here, and Tienllen, 
 Homei, Shue have to fight off carnivorous giant jellyfish, 
 starfish and other beasts. They advance into the base and, 
 in the end, approach the computer centre...


 MEANWHILE, SIVA NETWORK, MANDALA-SYSTEM

 The inside of the Mandala-system is a giant black emptiness, 
 where the information stored in SIVA-net is visible as 
 shimmering white globes, floating in the darkness. Taking 
 shape here, Meshmer feels all-powerful...and for a good 
 reason.

 All information of every user across the entire world on 
 SIVA-network is literally within his grasp now; business 
 transactions, bank accounts, medical files - they can all be 
 viewed, erased or changed at his whim. In this world of 
 information, he truly is a god...
 But Meshmer is not interested in all that, not now. His 
 attention is focused on one particular information-globe he 
 is approaching now; one with a darker shade than the others.
 Floating above this globe, he orders VISHNU to let him 
 access this globe.

 Once inside, even he is struck with awe...he never expected 
 anything like this! The inside of the globe resembles an 
 entire city! Almost an exact copy of Hongkong, only the 
 building blocks and streets are formed by electronic 
 circuits and computer chips. The sky here has a ghastly blue 
 color, with swirling cloud formations. But Meshmer isn't 
 here to admire the view...

 Still floating, he approaches the centre of the 
 computer-city, the electronic mirror image of SIVA Tower. 
 The top of the 'tower' is formed by something resembling a 
 power conduit.

 "The power of Heaven is within my grasp now..."

 He's ready for it. He grabs the tower summit in order to 
 access the data it leads to. To his surprise, he finds that 
 he's unable to... Something is blocking his access. He 
 curses, and suddenly hears a familiar voice..."

 "PROBLEMS, MESHMER?"
 "Demon-King! How did you get here?"
 "I TOLD YOU I WOULD WITNESS THE FINAL PHASE MYSELF, DIDN'T 
 I?"
 "Shit!"
 "HAHAHA! I CONTROL THIS ENTIRE SYSTEM, INCLUDING YOUR 
 MANDALA SYSTEM! AFTER THE SHRINE MAIDEN'S DEATH, I HAVE 
 ESTABLISHED MY OWN PRIVATE CONNECTION. AND I'VE MADE SURE 
 THAT YOU WON'T FIND THE WAY TO HEAVEN IN THIS INFO-GLOBE..."
 "Bastard!"

 Meshmer strikes out at the Demon-King with a wave of his
 water-power. It doesn't have the slightest effect.

 "DID YOU REALLY THINK YOUR PUNY POWER IS A MATCH FOR MINE?"

 Meshmer tries again, to no avail. After that, he vanishes.

 "THE COWARD RAN AWAY."

 VISHNU's voice resounds again throughout the system.

 "PROTECTION ROUTINE IN PROGRESS. REMOVAL OF HARMFUL FACTOR 
 FROM NETWORK. PERSONAL NETWORK ACCOUNT OF TARGET WILL BE 
 REVOKED."
 "NOW, GET ME OUT OF HERE AS WELL. THE TIME FOR FINAL BATTLE IS 
 DRAWING NEAR..."

 The Demon-King vanishes from the network.

 UNDERWATER BASE

 Mesher rematerialised in the "real world".

 "Hahah! Stupid bastard! He didn't expect me to get away so 
 fast..."

 Suddenly, he notices three unknown people entering the 
 network centre.

 "Meshmer!"
 "Who the hell are you? Did Yama send you?"
 "We want Meiphen back!"
 "Meiphen? I gave her to Yama as a present. Why are you 
 looking for her here?"
 "Yama!"
 "Yes! She's in her power now. But before you leave, I will 
 show you MY power!"

 Although Meshmer was surprised by Tienllen's arrival, he 
 knows very well how to defend himself. He uses his 
 water-power offensively as well as defensively. But unlike 
 the other Demon-lords, Meshmer doesn't have any aides. 
 Outnumbered, he is beaten by Shue, Tienllen and Homei. He 
 drops down on the floor, dying. After this, Tienllen takes 
 over the Water-Darsa.

 Suddenly, something strange happens. Out of thin air, an 
 object appears, and falls right into Tienllen's hands. It's 
 a metal rod with a knob in the shape of a dragon's head on 
 one end.

 "Shue, what's this?"
 "It..It's the holy Dragon-staff!"
 "The holy Dragon-staff?"
 "No doubt about it...the holy Dragon-staff, the Demon-sword 
 and the sacred mirror. The three sacred artifacts of 
 Darsa-ensealment. The power of the Darsa's is dependent on 
 them. It is rumored, that the three artifacts combined form 
 the key to the ultimate ensealment of the power of the 
 Darsa's. They were separated a long time ago..."
 "The three sacred artifacts..."
 "Tienllen, perhaps this artifact was given to you because 
 you just released the 6th Darsa-power. When the three 
 treasures are united, the Heavenly power will be in your 
 grasp. Don't lose that staff!"
 "That's all very nice, but after all this, we still haven't 
 found Meiphen..."
 "I think it's time to pay Yama a visit!"
 "Why did Meshmer hand her over to Yama?"
 "Haven't got a clue, really..."

 They leave Meshmer's underwater base.

PART 10 - MA-TEN

  SIVA NETWORK

  DATABASE
  SUBJECT: MA-TEN PROJECT
  RATING: top-secret

  A top-secret project executed by the company that would be  the
  predecessor  of  SIVA  inc.  It  was   considered   a   major
  breakthrough in genetic research by the  participants.  Final
  aim  was  the  creation  of  a  number  of  individuals  with
  genetically enhanced ESP (Extra-Sensory Perception)  and  EPM
  (Extra-Physical Manipulation) abilities. Experiments  covered
  a wide range of psionic skills. Eight  of  the  test-subjects
  reached foetal state and were  born  healthy and without  any
  difficulties.

  PROJECT CLOSED SUCCESFULLY, FURTHER DATA NO LONGER EXISTENT.

  END OF FILE
  ===========


  SIVA NETWORK

  PERSONNEL FILES
  SUBJECT: PERSONAL FILE YAMA
  RATING: CONFIDENTIAL

  NAME           : YAMA GETSUMEI
  ALIAS          : "MISTRESS OF THE MOON-LYRE"
  GENDER         : F
  AGE            : UNKNOWN
  OCCUPATION     : SUPERVISOR SIVA GENETIC RESEARCH LAB.
  WHEREABOUTS    : INNER,MEDICAL QUARTERS, GENETIC LAB

  Her beauty and skill in seducing men are only rivaled by  the
  treacherousness of her character. She loves ensnaring men and
  deceiving  them  later  in  a  mean  way.  Even  her   fellow
  Demonlords aren't safe for her machinations. She's had  brief
  relationships with Dai and Meshmer. Furthermore, she's a very
  skillful scientist in the area of genetic manipulation.  It's
  been rumoured  that  she  performs  experiments  on  innocent
  citizens, but  this  hasn't  been  proved  yet.  The  genetic
  research  lab  is  heavily   guarded   and   off-limits   for
  unauthorized persons.

  Apart from the powers of the Moon, which able her  to  seduce
  whoever she likes,  she  has  no  further  special  offensive
  abilities.

  END OF FILE
  ===========


  OUTER DOWNTOWN, SHANGRI-LA BAR

  "Welcome. You guys found Meiphen yet?"
  "No, we didn't"
  "Iren, what do you know about Yama?"
  "She's the  supervisor  of  the  medical  laboratory  in  the
  western part of town. And  yes,  I  did  receive  information
  which  confirms  that  Meiphen  is  kept  somewhere  in  that
  place."
  "Let's go there!"
  "What about your information network? Are you going  to  quit
  your job?"
  "Of course not!"
  "Just checking... There's a lot of rumors  going  round,  you
  know...hahaha!"
  "Flamenco, give them their passes..."
  "What about SIVA?"
  "It appears that Meshmers death was the final blow for  SIVA.
  It's losing control entirely now. The old  escape  routes  of
  Hongkong, which were closed after the rebuilding,  have  been
  reopened. Lots of people are leaving town. And  that  may  be
  the safest thing to do right now..."

  Only minutes later, the Wadatsumi flies off in the  direction
  of SIVA's genetic laboratory.


  MEANWHILE, INNER MEDICAL AREA, GENETIC LAB, YAMA'S BATHROOM

  One of Yama's  favorite  pastimes  is  taking  a  blood-bath.
  Nothing's better for  a  soft  and  beatiful  skin  as  human
  blood...

  "Foolish men...They're all the  same.  Dai...Meshmer...Stupid
  fools, all of them!"

  Suddenly, the air above the giant bath starts shimmering, and
  the black shape of the Demon King appears."

  "Salutations, Yama."
  "Demon King....What brings you here?"
  "The completion of my masterplan is drawing  near.  The  only
  problem left, is Tienllen and his companions. We  can't  have
  them interfere in this crucial stage!"
  "Don't worry mylord, all has been taken care of..."
  "Excellent work, Yama."
  "Thank you..."

  The Black Lord makes an upward motion with his richt arm, and
  Yama's dripping body floats upwards out of the bath,  towards
  him. Even a creature like him has physical needs...

INNER, MEDICAL AREA

  The passes Flamenco gave them work perfectly, as  always.  An
  elevator takes  them  straight  to  the  genetic  lab,  which
  seems deserted and silent. They find a back door, which isn't
  locked. Inside, a  surprise  is  waiting  for  them:  an  old
  friend...

  "Look! Miss Meiphen?! Miss Meiphen, you're allright!"
  "Wait! She's acting kinda strange."

  Homei notices Meiphen's glassy  eyes...  She  starts  walking
  towards her.

  "Miss....Meiphen?"

  The attack that follows  is  quick  as  lightning,  and  very
  deadly. Only Tienllen's Diver-reflexes  let  him  react  fast
  enough to block the blow of Meiphen's killer  whip, meant for
  Homei, with his own arm. Blood is gushing out...

  "Mr. Tienllen!"
  "It's just a fleshwound, nothing serious..."
  "Miss Meiphen!! Why?!"
  "It's no good. She can't hear you."

  Suddenly Meiphen speaks, with a voice that is  not  her  own,
  but a familiar one nontheless...

  "I hear you, old fool. Did you really think your puny  powers
  were a match for a member of the former Octavirate?"
  "Yama, Mistress of the Moon-lyre..."
  "What?! Isn't this Miss Meiphen?"

  Instead of answering the question, Shue fires a bolt of magic
  at what he thinks is only a copy of  the  real  Meiphen.  The
  attack  dissolves  harmlessly  in  the  air  before  reaching
  Meiphen.

  "What?! She neutralized my spell!!"
  "Hahahaha! Sorry to disappoint you, but my magic is much more
  powerful than yours!"
  "Wait a minute...Did you use the Force Command?"
  "I did indeed. I'm surprised to hear you know anything  about
  that. This girl was one of the early test subjects, sort of a
  prototype. I have to say I'm very satisfied with the  result.
  But now, are you finally prepared to die?"
  "What's happening, Shue?!"
  "I'll explain  later.  Tienllen,  Homei!  I  need  you  help!
  Meiphen's mind is under Yama's control!"
  "Her....mind?!"
  "Yes! Hurry, I must focus my own mind to  hers.  You  do  the
  same! Quick!"
  "Eh..okay.."

  Shue fires off another magic bolt. Again without any  effect,
  but it seems as if his magic came just  a  little  closer  to
  Meiphen than before this time...

  "Not good enough yet. My magic still doesn't have any effect.
  But her resistance is weakening. Try harder..."

  Shue keeps attacking Meiphen with his magic. Each  time,  his
  magic gets a little closer to the intended  target.  But  his
  efforts are plainly exhausting him. In  the  end,  his  final
  attack succeeds - Meiphen collapses,  unconscious.  But  Shue
  seems to be close to exhaustion as wel...

  "Shue! Are you allright?"
  "I..I'll manage. But you better check if  Meiphen's  okay.  I
  hope I'll  never  have  to  do  something  like  this  again,
  Tienllen... We better take her back to my house."

  LATER, SHUE'S HOME

  "Homei, how is she doing?"
  "Still fast asleep."
  "Good. I need to tell you something  about  Meiphen.  She  is
  actually the result of a genetic experiment..."
  "A-An experiment?!"
  "Yes...Long ago, those in search for power conducted terrible
  experiments  with  living  beings.  The  result  were   eight
  individuals with superhuman powers."
  "De Octavirate..."
  "Yes...But due to these experiments, chaos broke out.  During
  the confusion of Hong Kons's disaster, the Demon King saw  an
  opportunity, and  made  them  his  slaves...They  became  the
  "Demon Lords". He used them to serve his dark  ambitions.  20
  years ago I found Meiphen as a baby.  She  was  a  result  of
  those same experiments as well...although she  was  forgotten
  by the others..."
  "Shue...I...Am I too a result of those experiments?"
  "What?!"
  "Well, Shue?"
  "No, you're not. Your fate  is  linked  with  the  powers  of
  Heaven, who were displeased with the diabolical  experiments,
  and caused the Disaster. Perhaps  you...But  that's  not  the
  point right now. The scientists conducting  the  experiments,
  foresaw the possibility that their own creations  could  rise
  against them. Therefore, through  genetic  programming,  they
  planted a 'Force Command' option in each of the subjects.  By
  pronouncing a certain string of  words,  the  subjects  would
  become willess puppets and execute any  given  command.  Yama
  has found out that Meiphen can also  be  controlled  in  this
  manner..."
  "But she's safe now, isn't she?"
  "I'm afraid not. Her mind is still under Yama's power. Yama's
  has taken it from her, and as long as it's  still  under  her
  control, it's impossible for her  spirit  to  return  to  her
  body. Even killing Yama won't change that. The only way to do
  it, is by removing the Force Command."
  "How?"
  "The only way to do it, is pronouncing the  key  words,  just
  like the Force Command.  We  have  to  activate  the  'Remove
  Command', which will rid her from the force command for good.
  Unfortunately,  Yama  is  the  only  person  who  knows   the
  key words."
  "But she won't ever tell us willingly!"
  "We'll get her to talk..."
  "No. There is another way. If I can touch  her  freshly  dead
  body, I could get the information I need  directly  from  her
  mind, and via me, Meiphen's spirit could return  to  her  own
  body. But we'll have to act very fast..."
  "Let's go!"

LATER, BACK IN THE GENETIC LAB

  In the vast laboratory building,  Tienllen,  Shue  and  Homei
  have to fight off  the  flying  devils,  results  of  genetic
  experiments. Unfortunately, they discover that  many  of  the
  doors are locked electronically. When they enter one  of  the
  rooms, someone suddenly takes shape before  them...It's  Kai.
  Shue is clearly surprised.

  "Now what?"
  "Long time no see..."
  "No...not since the case of the Red Wolf."
  "That's been a loooong time ago... I'd almost forgotten about
  it..."
  "Remember the Blue Dragon? Those were the days..."
  "They were, indeed..."
  "Shue, what's happened to this world? Will it ever be like it
  used to be again?"
  "I'm afraid not, Kai."
  "Too bad..."
  "But you're not here to catch up  on  old  stories  with  me,
  right?"
  "No. I'm still looking for Lee's hiding place. But  I'll  see
  you around. And watch out Shue, I sense  a  great  danger  on
  your path..."

  Kai vanishes just as sudden as he appeared.

  A little later, the threesome discovers the control  room  of
  the laboratory. Via the computer terminal,  they  unlock  the
  doors. Eventually they reach the  security  area,  which  can
  only be crossed by means of a number  of  pits  inhabited  by
  incredibly powerful guardian robots.  They manage to get past
  them by sheer luck. After unlocking several steel trap  doors
  barring their way, they enter a Demon  Shrine.  A  back  door
  leads them to the sanctuary, where they find Yama waiting for
  them, in front of a big  crystal  globe.  She  addresses  the
  globe.

  "Demonn King! Hear me! Reveal your true divine power now!
  "It's useless Yama, there's no escape for you now!"

  Suddenly, the globe flashes up with a bright light... In  the
  air above it, a very familiar black shape appears.

  "Master..."
  "Demon King?! No, this must be a hologram..."
  "Well, Shue. I see you still haven't had the sense to die?"
  "When I do, I will take you along with me. But I guess you're
  too big a coward for a face-to-face battle with me..."
  "Hahaha...Yama. You called  me.  Your  power  is  now  linked
  directly to mine. Are you ready to receive it?"
  "Yes, master."
  "Very well, my beloved Yama. I will grant you a very  special
  power."
  "A special power? I-I...Noooo!!"

  Yama's body becomes a radiant mass of white light. The  light
  appears to expand and  pulsate,  constantly  shifting  shape.
  Then, the shape solidifies... Yama has been  changed  into  a
  grotesque monstrous being...
  "I hope you like your new  body.  Hahahah!  Well,  Shue.  You
  wanted a battle, you'll get one. Hahahah!"

  With a booming laugh, the hologram of the dark  king  flashes
  out.

  "I'm sorry for you, Yama. We were friends  once,  but  now  I
  have no choice but to destroy you..."

  Shue, Homei en Tienllen attack the creature before  them.  In
  this shape however, she's far from defenseless, and  she  has
  several deadly attacks she can  use.  But  Shue's  magic  and
  Tienllen's Darsa-power are too much to handle for  her.  Soon
  the final member of  the  Octavirate  has  been  slayn.  Shue
  kneels down at the fallen body.

  "Now I must hurry..."

  He puts his hand on the body, and concentrates.  The  tension
  is almost tangible. Then, he finds what he was looking for...

  "I've got it! Let the Gate of Sweetness be closed.  Hear  me.
  Let the past  be  returned!  Your  true  spirit  is  the  Red
  Lotus!!"

  After pronouncing these words, Shue collapses.

  "Shue!"
  "I've sent the Remove Command to Meiphen. She's safe now..."
  "Shue..."

  Tienllen kneels down with his friend and mentor.

  "Shue..what's wrong?"
  "T-The burden of Meiphen's young mind was too much  for  this
  old body to bear. It has finally collaped.."
  "Tienllen, use your healing power, quick!!"
  "It's useless...my life is over..."
  "No! Don't die!"
  "I have lived for many years.  But  now,  it  ends  at  last.
  Nothing lasts forever..."
  "Shue..."
  "Listen,  Tienllen...This  is  a  turning  point.  You   have
  collected nearly all Darsa powers. You no longer need me. But
  remember...whatever you do...do not abuse that power...ever!
  Now....farewell,             friends...have             faith
  in...Homei...and...Meiphen..."
  Shue's eyes close. The old  sorcerer  is  dead.  Tienllen  is
  filled with grief...but at the same time, he is determined to
  destroy the one  responsible  for  this...he  will  not  rest
  before he has defeated the Demon King!!

PART 11 - SIVA TOWER

 OUTER DOWNTOWN, SHUE'S HOUSE

 Homei leaves the bedroom.

 "Well?"
 "She's still asleep. But she's not as pale as
 she was before. I think she'll pull through."
 "Let's not wake her up yet..."

 Suddenly, someone materializes in the room. Kai.

 "I salute you."
 "Kai..."
 "I finally found out where they're keeping Lee. 
 Shall we go there?"
 "Lee?!"
 "Where is he?"
 "In the only place in the city you haven't been
 yet...SIVA Tower!"
 "So he's still alive!"
 "Will you accompany me, Tienllen?"
 "It's pointless anyway...Kai...Shue is dead..."
 "He's not dead. His spirit just left this world 
 for another one. Perhaps you'll meet him again
 some day. He was a brave man. He'd have wanted you
 to join me, Tienllen."
 "Thanks,Kai...Okay, I'll come along."
 "Let's go."

 LATER, INNER CENTRE, SIVA TOWER

 Like a needle, the slender metal peak of SIVA Tower 
 rises up from the glittering metropolis of 
 Hongkong. It is symbolic of the invulnerability
 of this bussines organization. Even now, with all 
 SIVA chief executives dead, the tower seems to 
 radiate an aura of authority and solidity. This
 nocturnal Hongkong is a sea of lights, which 
 can be overseen entirely from the top of the tower.
 Whoever looks down here feels unassailable, 
 all-powerful and uninvolved in the earthly matters 
 below. Though SIVA-tower is SIVA's heart, hardly 
 any people have been employed in the building.
 In fact, it's one giant housing for the true heart 
 of SIVA-Network...the gigantic data-bases, 
 gargantuan power generators and, most important, 
 the super-computer that was built 10 years ago 
 and has supervised and managed the network ever 
 since: BRAHMA. According to Iren, SIVA-Network is 
 still leading its own life, although all of SIVA's 
 leaders are dead. The computers managing the system 
 are fully autonomous and need no human being to tell
 them how to do their job. Or is it something else?
 Tienllen, Homei and Kai, who carefully land Wadatsumi
 on SIVA-tower's landing platform, have no knowledge 
 of all this. They're just interested in how to
 get inside the steel stronghold....something which 
 appears to be almost impossible!

 "A 70mm bomb-proof door, made of Neo-adamantium, with 
 a T2-electromagnetic lock..."
 "And I've heard that the entire tower is protected by 
 a powerful magic-deflecting forcefield. It'd take an 
 army to get in!"
 "Kai, can't you do something?"

 With a disdainful look on his face, Kai examines the 
 metal gate.

 "Nothing can bar my way!"

 Without any visible effort from Kai, the metal door 
 slides open silently. The security alert remains silent.
 "We can move on..."

 Although SIVA-Tower is unmanned, it isn't unguarded. 
 Dangerous monsters are lurking about here. Kai's magic 
 spells come in very handy now.

 After a long exploration of the giant tower, the threesome 
 arrives in a strange room. It's been constructed as a number 
 of onion-wise layers. In the innermost layer, within a 
 strange mark painted on the floor with odd torches at the
 corners, is a man...

 "Lee."

 Homei wants to run towards him right away, but Tienllen 
 stops her.

 "Wait. That sign on the floor. I don't think we can just 
 cross it like that."
 "You...impossible! I have killed you..at least, that's 
 what I thought..."
 "Killed? If that were the case, I wouldn't be here now,
  would I?"
 "But why have you come? To mock me?"
 "Lee, the Southern Demonlord...."
 "Not quite. Lee is no longer the Southern Demonlord, but 
 a mere human being."
 "Hah...a mere human being..."
 "Lee...we need you. You must fight along with us. It was 
 my sister's wish."
 "Shawmei?"
 "Lee...you helped my sister...Shawmei and I have now 
 become one. She wants you to join us."
 "Shawmei..."
 "Is it okay, Tienllen?"
 "That's a decision Lee has to make for himself."
 "You want to destroy the Demon-King?"
 "Yes."
 "Fine, count me in,then."
 "Hmm...interesting..."

 Kai examines the sign on the floor, which appears to keep 
 Lee entrapped. Then, without any effort, he crosses it. 
 He blows softly and, one by ond, the magic torches at
 the corners, fade out.  

 "What! You crossed the magic Octagonal barrier without 
 difficulties?! That's an incredibly powerful incantation...
 You must have superhuman powers..."
 "Nothing can bar my way..."

 Lee walks over to Homei.

 "So you're Homei."
 "Yes."
 "Shawmei...you're her perfect mirror image..."
 "Naturally! We're twins, remember!"
 "Hmm...I think you're too important to get involved in this 
 any further. 
 Wouldn't it be better to transfer you to a safer place?"
 "Can you send her home?"
 "Shawmei's death was my fault. I don't want to make 
 the same mistake twice and be responsible for your death 
 as well. Tienllen, is it okay with you if I teleport her 
 home?"
 "Fine with me."
 "No, wait, I want to come with you!"
 "What do you think, Kai?"
 "That decision is not mine to make."
 "Very well, I'll send her home."
 "No, I don't want to!"

 Lee puts a gentle hand on Homei's shoulder, and in the 
 blink of an eye, she vanishes.

 "Can we go now? We need to get to the Demon-King's 
 hiding place."
 "Yes."
 "The only way to get there, is through the dimensional
  gate."
 "The Demon-King...soon, we'll meet."

 Lee leads them to an apparently dead-ended footbridge 
 in the tower. By means of a hidden switch, Lee activates 
 the extendable bridge and opens the way to what appears 
 to be a demon-temple. This temple however, has something
 the other temples lacked. In the hindmost wall of the 
 temple, is an oval-shaped gate, the mouth of the demon 
 sculptured around it. From the opening of the gate, a 
 ghastly light shines. The curtains flanking the
 gate seem to vibrate with life, like the slow pounding 
 of a giant heart.

 "This gate will lead us to Illusion Citadel, in the 
 world of Maya, the Power of Illusion. This dimensional 
 gate is the only way to get there."
 "Are you prepeared, Tienllen? From this point, there 
 will be no return.
 If you'd decide to go back, this is the right moment."
 "Why would I want to go back?! Why don't YOU go back?"
 "Haha."
 "Let's go!"

 The threesome enter the blindening light, leading to 
 another world...

ILLUSION CITADEL, CENTRE

 The Demon-King materializes without any sound. Through 
 the dimensional link, he receives BRAHMA's emotionless 
 voice.

 "NETWORKDIVE, FINAL PHASE. MATERIALIZATION OF 
 NETWORK-DIVER ACCOMPLISHED.
 MANDALA-SYSTEM AND SIVA NETWORK FULLY OPERATIONAL. 
 ALL SYSTEMS NOMINAL.
 INITIALIZING FINAL PHASE.
 INITIATING DIMENSIONAL TRANSFER OF ILLUSION CITADEL."

 The Demonking chuckles. He recalls the facets of his 
 plan. They're perfect, like the facets of a perfectly
 polished diamond. SIVA was history...that
 was good...he didn't need them anymore. The 
 "Octavirate" had been useful, for a while. But in 
 the end, they had turned out to be nothing more than 
 human beings after all. And therefore, they'd had 
 human weaknesses. Fay's drug addicition,
 Meshmer's betrayal, Lee's futile love for Shawmei,
 all things that had led to their own doom.

 The Demon-King had soon realized, that magic was no 
 longer a major power in this world. The force that 
 had once ruled the planet, had been reduced
 to a faint reflection of its former self. The Darsas 
 had been its last remnant. However, there was another 
 power, that had taken the place of magic:
 technology! The Demon-King had studied the principles of 
 computers, and seen their giant potential right away. 
 Back then, his plan had formed. Using the confusion 
 following the Hongkong Disaster...seducing eight 
 persons that would become his servants...it had been 
 so easy to persuade them with his visions of power 
 and wealth... Under their able leadership, SIVA had
 grown into an all-powerful organization, controlling 
 life in Hongkong  entirely. The next step had been 
 the establishment of the demon-religion. That had 
 also been ridiculously easy. By offering the worshippers 
 empty dreams of everything they most wanted, they had 
 been easy to control.  Fools...they thought they would 
 inherit the "Paradise on Earth". According to the 
 "Holy Writings", Judgment Day was at hand. And then, 
 the Demon-King would decide the fate of mankind... 
 The prediction was correct up to that point...but he'd
 treat the followers of the demon-faith exactly the same as
 all the others. They'd all be his slaves...or die.

 The established faith had been useful to keep the 
 citizens satisfied. But the real plan of the Demon-King 
 had been realized on an entirely different level. SIVA's
 scientific research-branch had researched the concept of
 interdimensional transportation for years. It turned out
 to be possible, theoretically, as the Demon-King had
 known already. They abandoned the project however, 
 because a dimensional transfer would require an incredible
 amount of power and to control the process, a computer 
 would be needed with a memory capacity so large, that 
 it was useless to consider this possibility. But the 
 Demon-King knew better than that. He had all the power 
 he needed. And SIVA-Network had expanded the past years
 across the entire world. It was now a gigantic network, 
 as complex as the human nervous system. And it was under
 his total control now... What had been a theoretic 
 possibility, he had made reality. The installment of the
 Mandala-system had been the final completion. The command
 had been given. Nothing could stop him now. Not even 
 Tienllen...

 HONGKONG CITY

 The storm is still raging in the sky above Hongkong. 
 Pitch-black clouds are whirling around in an almost 
 unnatural way. One can feel a strange tension
 above the sea of lights below. Something is about to 
 happen...

 Suddenly, all the lights dim at the same time, like 
 someone pulled out one giant plug. Within SIVA-Tower,
 giant generators and accumulators are activated. Millions
 of computer-users across the entire world suddenly witness
 total gibberish scrolling across their screens.

 From the middle of the now dark city, from the tip of
 the glimmering peak of SIVA-Tower  a bright, needle-thin
 ray of incredibly concentrated power bursts into the sky,
 piecing the dense clouds. For a moment, nothing seems
 to happen....but then, a rent appears in the clouds. A
 rent in the fibre of the universe, through which a 
 strange, pulsating red light is visible.
 The cleft broadens and becomes a hole. Larger and 
 larger it grows, until it fills the entire sky above
 Hongkong. Then, the opening stops expanding.
 It seems as if the world below is holding its breath. 
 The lights in Hongkong flash on again and everything 
 appears to be normal once more. But from the opened 
 dimensional portal above Hongkong, a dark shadow is suddenly 
 cast. A shadow even greater than the city itself...

 A shape of gigantic size looms up from behind the clouds, 
 and slowly descends towards Hongkong. Soon, it's total shape
 is visible clearly; a giant floating island, a harbinger of 
 death and destruction for the world it just entered.
 On this island, the black shape of a giant stronghold can 
 be seen...Illusion Citadel. From the descending island, which
 seems intended to crush Hongkong like the foot of a giant, 
 bright blue lightning bolts bear down upon the city below,
 wreaking havoc everywhere.

 For the first time in many, many millenia, a demon fortress
 has appeared on earth again. Armageddon seems inevitable now...

PART 12 - ILLUSION CITADEL


ILLUSION CITADEL

 A crescent-shaped gate in a temple wall suddenly opens up to
 reveal three visitors that are quite out of place here.

 "Here we are. We've entered the Citadel."

 The threesome ventures further into the temple, and have
 just found an exit when they hear a familiar voice behind
 them. Meiphen arrives, coming from the same direction 
 they just came from.
 
 "Tienllen!"
 "Meiphen? How dit you get here?"
 "Oh, it's just that girl..." Kai says with a sigh of 
 relief.
 "Sorry if this is a bad moment for me showing up...but
 Homei told me everything. About Shue..."
 "Homei?! Wait a sec, that's impossible! We just sent her
 back home a few minutes ago. It can't be that you..."
 "I know, Tienllen," Lee says. "The interdimensional gate
 causes a time distortion for whoever passes through it.
 For us, it only SEEMED minutes. But I reckon a little more
 time has passed in the outside world..."

 "Terrible things are happening in the city at the moment,"
 Meiphen says grimply. "I dropped Homei off at the house of
 some friends of mine. She's safe. But this situation has to
 end!"
 "The only way to end this is defeating the Demon-King. But
 it's something we have to do alone, Meiphen."

 "Tienllen, you're not saying you want to leave me out, do
 you?! I want to join you!"

 "You have to get back, while it's still possible!"
 "Never! I don't want to sit back and watch! Like I did
 when Shue died!"
 "With the powers I've gathered by now, I may be able to
 defeat the Demon-King..."
 "I KNOW you can defeat him, Tienllen," Meiphen assures him.
 "Well then, let's be quick about it and leave!"

 Meiphen suspiciously eyes the handsome stranger.

 "So, you must be Lee?"
 "So I am."
 "Were you the one who teleported Homei to safety?"
 "Yes, I..."
 
 Kai interrupts. 
 "We don't have time for idle chatting! I will wait for you
 here. This will be a test of your powers, not of mine."
 "Kai, we..."
 "Get inside, and defeat the Demon-King. Then return here.
 We will still be able to use the gate to escape, if we're
 quick about it. I will wait for you until then."
 "Very well..."

 Kai remains, and Tienllen, Meiphen en Lee move on, through
 an enormous gate. It is flanked by sculpted golden serpents,
 encrusted with priceless gemstones. 

 "This is the entrance to the inner sanctum of the Citadel.
 I've been here before. Tienllen, to be honest, I'm not en-
 tirely sure even your powers will suffice to defeat the
 Demon-King. I know of a place in this citadel that harbors
 one of the Sacred Treasures: The Demonic Blade. If we could
 just get our hands on that..."

 Illusion Citadel is not a safe place to say the least. Titanic
 beasts - lethal Wans and cunning Pokerfaces are frightening
 opponents here. The Demonic fortress is a storehouse for many
 ancient magic treasures that can be found for the alert 
 adventurer. 
 Soon, the threesome enters a high altar, where they discover
 a sacred room. The square-shaped space contains four stone 
 platforms, one on each side. Above these platforms, strange
 ghostlike shapes are shimmering. In the exact middle of the 
 room is another platform, one with a metal hatch at the top.

 "This is it! The room I was talking about," Lee says with
 excitement in his voice. "The seal of the Demonic Blade. 
 One has to draw it from the Lifeblood of Heaven. But first the
 seal has to be broken... I think now, after many many years,
 we have at last someone powerful enough to have collected 
 nearly all the Darsa's, and even powerful enough to wield this
 Godlike blade to fight for a good cause... For this, you must
 conquer the four elemental powers:

 To the North, Water
 To the South, Fire
 To the East, Earth
 To the West, Wind
 And in the Middle lies the power of Heaven. The Demonic Blade,
 a sword forged in the Heavens, is floating on the ocean of
 Maya, the Power of Illusion."

 "You sure know your stuff..."
 "This is just what's written in the Holy Scriptures of the
 Demonic Religion. Of course, the religion was a fake, but the
 scriptures it was based on dates back to the dawn of mankind,
 and the predictions it speaks of have been done by our far,
 far ancestors... The Demon-King has made a fatal error by
 not breaking this seal. Perhaps he thought it unimportant,
 or perhaps he wasn't able to break it for some reason. But I
 know YOU will be able to, Tienllen."

 But it's not easy to break the four-fold seal of the sword.
 Each part of the seal is guarded by an elemental monster, and
 only by opposing the elements the monsters are based on,
 Tienllen achieves victory; the four seals have been broken.
 Tienllen slowly strides to the middle platform.

 Lee explains, "Now, your back should face the north seal,
 while you look out straight to the Heaven's Gate."

 Tienllen moves into position in front of the metal hatch.

 "The next thing you do, is sacrifice one of the Sacred
 Treasures to the Gods. I don't think the Demon-King possessed
 any of those treasure, so he wasn't able to complete this
 step..."

 Tienllen removes the Sacred Dragon Staff from his backpack, 
 and raises it up above his head. The holy object glows
 faintly, then vanishes without a trace. The same moment, the
 metal hatch moves and its two doors burst open with a
 thundering sound. Looking through the gate, Tienllen sees a
 strange sea of light, and a sudden urge has him put his hand
 in the passing flow of light. He feels a solid object, and
 draws his hand back. In his hand is a shimmering black blade
 that radiates power...
 Tienllen finally has a weapon he can use against the Demon-
 King!

 Now it is time to visit the Dark Lord himself...
 A staircase from the great altar leads towards a bridge to
 another temple-like space. Here they meet the Demon-King's
 last line of defence: Gigantic nightmarish creatures which can
 only be destroyed by relying on Lee's fire magic, the Demonic
 Blade and the Formula-gun a new super-firearm constructed by
 Doc.

 But even if they can keep the monsters at bay, the last door
 leading to the Demon-King remains out of reach. The way is
 barred by stone barriers rising from the ground. The only clue
 seems to be the four revolving statues in the corners of the
 room. Each of them is inscribed with a meaningless phrase.
 In the end, they find out: by putting the statues in a 
 specific position, the complete sentence becomes readable, and
 at the same time, a giant bridge appears, leading to the 
 final door.

 At last, the three heroes find themselves in the final room
 of the Citadel; the sanctuary of the Demon-King...

"Demon-King!"

 Three bright beams of light illuminate them, and from the
 darkness above a familiar shape appears. No hologram this
 time!

 "SO, THERE YOU ARE, MY CHILDREN. YOU ARE LATE..."
 "I've been waiting for this moment for a long time, Demon-
  King.
 But now we finally meet. We will finish this once and for
 all!" 'HAHAHAHAH! DON'T MAKE ME LAUGH! YOU THINK YOU
 POSSESS THE TRUE HEAVENLY POWER... OH, BUT I SEE YOU BROUGHT
 TWO FRIENDS. HOW VERY UNWISE OF YOU..."
 "Oh really?! The three of us will put and end to you, 
 Demon-King!"
 "HAH. YOU WILL SOON SEE THAT THE LAST LAUGH IS MINE. NOW,
 LET THE GATE OF SWEETNESS BE OPENED! HEAR ME! FORGET THE
 PAST. YOUR TRUE SHAPE IS THE BLUE LOTUS!"
 "It's that accursed spell again!"
 
 Lee's body is spasming beyond control, like before... Then,
 Meiphen intervenes.

 "The Gate of Sweetness is closed! Hear me! Let the past 
 return. Your true spirit is the Red Lotus! What do you think
 of that, Demon-King?"

 Lee instantly gains back control over his body.

 "INTERESTING...THE REMOVE COMMAND. SO SHUE DID FIND IT IN
 YAMA'S DYING MIND. TOO BAD HE HAD TO DIE FOR IT..."

 "Shue sacrificed his body to save me. The Force Command is
 now useless. We aren't puppets for you to control!"

 "HAVE IT YOUR WAY. I WILL DEAL WITH YOU PERSONALLY. THE
 HEAVENLY POWERS ARE WITIN MY GRASP!"
 
 "The Heavenly Powers are strong enough to destroy us all,
 Demon-King, including you..."

 "NONSENSE! WHOEVER POSSESSES THAT POWER, WILL BE A GOD HIMSELF!
 MANKIND IS NOT WORTHY OF HAVING SUCH A POWER. THAT'S WHY I
 WILL CRUSH THEM ALL...LIKE INSECTS!"

 Tienllen remains silent.

 "SPEECHLESS? PERHAPS YOU DESIRE THAT POWER FOR YOURSELF? 
 HAHAHAHA....FOR A WHILE, I THOUGHT YOU WERE A SERIOUS 
 THREAT. BUT YOU'RE A HUMAN, LIKE ALL THE OTHERS. WE'VE
 WASTED ENOUGH TIME - I'M GOING TO EXTERMINATE YOU VERMIN!
 DIE!!"

 At last, Tienllen, Meiphen and Lee can face their archenemy
 face to face. The Demon-king has serveral deadly magic attacks
 at his disposal, and his two slave-globes replenish his
 health and attack power constantly.
 Resisting the fire-attacks, lightning bolts, comets and
 whiplashes of the Demon-King seems impossible. But Tienllen
 too, is now a formidable opponent. Not only because of the
 Demonic Blade, but also because of the powers of seven
 Darsa's that are combined in his body. Only the Eight'
 Darsha is missing, for the Demon-King has the power of Fire
 still in his possession. After a long and exhausting battle,
 the score has finally been settled. The King of Darkness is
 defeated, his body desintegrates entirely...

 "It's over..."
 "Yes..."

 But then, something odd occurs. With a frightening sound, an
 object takes shape above them. It seems like a giant, gem-
 encrusted mirror, but instead of reflecting their images,
 only oily blackness is visible in it... Slowly, the object
 floats down, in front of them.

 "What, but that's..."
 "A mirror?!"

 Tienllen feels a strange sort of power drawing him closer to
 the mirror. Before he realized, he has walked towards it.

 "Tienllen!" Meiphen wants to stop her lifelong friend, but
 Lee holds her back.
 "Don't! It's dangerous!"

 But Tienllen seems oblivious to the cries of his friends.
 He faces his own reflection int he mirror. The darkness
 of the smooth surface beckons him... Raising one hand,
 he touches the polished face of the mirror. To his 
 surprise, his hand passes straight through it, as if
 he's just dipped his hand in an icy pool of water.
 There's no escape now, Tienllen is drawn further into
 the mirror, leaving Meiphen and Lee in shock...


HONGKONG CITY

 The once proud 21st century Hongkong has changed into an
 outpost of hell. The lightning bolts raining down from the
 huge flying fortress have destroyed houses, caused fires
 and at some places, they have even penetrated the artificial
 foundation plate, causing carnage in the city below. People
 desperately run for shelter, finding none. Supernatural
 appearances, frightening illusions appear everywhere,
 chasing and killing people. All hope seems lost...

 But then, something happens. The giant floating island in 
 the sky shivers and rocks, causing a deadly rain of rocks
 falling down. With chilling screams, the ghostlike shapes
 in the streets vanish. Slowly but irresistably, the island
 rises up to the clouds again, to the still-open dimensional
 portal. Without the evil will of the Demon-King guiding it, 
 the island falls prey to the immense drawing forces between
 the two dimensions, like a ship out of control in a vortex.
 The dimensional portal itself, created and sustained by the
 energy of SIVA Tower, now a heap of rubble, is closing
 slowly. Only minutes later, both the island and the
 dimensional hole have vanished completely, leaving the
 city below in chaos.

ELSEWHERE

 It is an enchanting place, and somehow, it looks familiar to
 Tienllen. A world of light, ice and crystal... somehow he
 knows for sure, that this can only be Heaven, home of the
 Gods themselves. Yet, there is no tranquil or peaceful 
 atmosphere here... Rather, there's a tension in the air, as
 if something of major importance is about to happen. From 
 thin air, Tienllen hears a voice.

 "SO, AFTER ALL, THE DEMON-LORDS WERE MERELY A WEAK REFLECTION
 OF THE TRUE POWER OF HEAVEN. THE HEAVENLY POWERS DECIDED TO
 DESTROY THIS ABOMINATION. AND YOU, OUR AVATAR, HAVE COMPETED
 YOUR MISSION NOW."
 "Where am I? And who am I talking to?!"

 "TIENLLEN! AT LAST, YOU HAVE REGAINED YOUR COMPLETE POWER.
 YOU NOW CONTROL THE POWER OF THE EIGHT MAGIC DARSA'S...
 THE DIVINE POWER."
 "That voice...who are you?"

 Suddenly, he remembers where and when he heard this voice
 before...it's the voice from his dreams!

 "CALL ME 'TEN' IF YOU WISH. TIENLLEN, YOU MUST RELEASE THE
 POWER OF THE DARSA'S YOU POSSESS HERE."
 "Show yourself first!"

 A sound of lightning striking. And suddenly, at a previously
 empty place in fron of him, a man has appeared, facing him.
 Someone who looks very familiar to Tienllen - he looks like
 an exact double of Tienllen!

 "HERE I AM."
 "But...you..."
 "WHY BE SO SURPRISED? ALLOW ME TO EXPLAIN. I AM 'TEN', THE
 MESSENGER OF HEAVEN. YOU ARE PART OF ME, MY HUMAN REPRESEN-
 TATIVE SO TO SPEAK, YOU ARE 'TIENLLEN'. OUR FATE IS LINKED..."

 "You're not fooling me..."

 "I AM NOT LYING. I HAVE CHOSEN YOU, YOU ANSWERED MY PRAYERS.
 NOW, YOU MUST RELINQUISH THE POWER OF THE DARSA'S, SO THAT
 I MAY ACCEPT IT..."
 
 "And what if I refuse?"

 "IF YOU REFUSE? ARE YOU SAYING YOU BROKE THE DARSA-SEALS 
 AGAINST YOUR OWN WILL? DID YOU THINK I ONLY WANTED THE DARSA'S
 AND THE SACRED TREASURES TO SATISFY MY HUNGER FOR POWER?
 THAT I ALLOWED YOU TO SHARE SOME OF MY POWER, TO DESTROY THE
 DEMONLORDS, ONLY FOR MY OWN GOOD?"

 Tienllen remains silent and thoughtful.

 "TIENLLEN! I HAVE TO RECEIVE THIS POWER! WE CAN RELIVE THE
 HEAVEN ON EARTH! WITH THE DIVINE POWER, WE CAN RELIVE THE
 HUMAN WORLD. THERE WILL BE MAGIC AGAIN! EVERYTHING WILL 
 BECOME AS IT USED TO BE!"

 "The Divine Power... what about the Gods, do they agree
 with your plans? Where are they?"  

 "THAT IS IRRELEVANT."

 "They've gone, haven't they?"

 "PERHAPS."

 "What role do the humans have in your grand plans?"

 "HUMANS... TIENLLEN, WHY CONTINUE TO WORRY ABOUT THEM? THEY
 ARE INFERIOR, UNWORTHY. IT IS THE DESTINY OF HEAVEN TO RULE
 EARTH AND TO USE PEOPLE FOR ITS OWN PURPOSE..."

 "What kind of heaven is this? What kind of God would you be,
 finding people useless and inferior! If that is really how
 you feel, you are a threat to us! You have to be destroyed!
 Destroy yourself, or be destroyed!"

 "STOP! I REFUSE! TIENLLEN, GIVE ME YOUR POWER!"

 "If you don't want to do it yourself, I will!"

 "SO BE IT. YOU WILL KNOW MY POWER..."

 Instead of sharing his power with the mysterious Ten, Tienllen
 decides to destroy the keeper of Heaven, finding him too 
 great a threat for mankind. But it is not easy.

 Tens powers are equal to those Tienllen possesses. And in this
 world, there is only magic. It is the only way the two can
 fight it out: magic versus magic... An explosive battle!
 Tienllens Darsa powers clash with Ten's heavenly magic.
 Soon, he drops his disguise, and takes on his true royal
 shape. Tienllen faces the ultimate threat!

 In the end, Ten uses his final powers to summon up his
 enormous monstrous steed, making him almost undefeatable. 
 Heaven itself trembles with the titanic forces that are
 used in the fight.

 But in the end, the best man wins...

 "WHAT AM I? HEAVEN? A GOD? MY VOICE MUST BE HEARD...
 MY GUIDING VOICE...MY WILL IS..."

 Slowly, the voice of the hapless Ten fades away. Was he a
 fallen god? Someone left by the gods to take care of things
 during their absence? Or something else? We will never know...
 But the threat to mankind is gone...


NEXT DAY, HONGKONG CITY

 The sunlight illuminates the desolate rubble of Hongkong. 
 The dark clouds have finally passed. A lone Spinner floats
 above the devastated city centre.

 "Spinner 305 to ground control. The centre section has been
 utterly destroyed. We've got uncontrolled fires in several
 places. Number of survivors is uncertain. Urgent requist for
 extinguisher-units in this area. Take the open route through
 city block 652, Northern section."

 Elsewhere in the city, a black EV is parked on the ground,
 a lone policewoman next to it. She carefully surveys the
 rubble around her. She contacts her base of operations.

 "Use all Spinners we can spare for the evacuation of the
 remaining citizens in the area. Damage and losses are
 substantial, but our first priority are the citizens. Thank
 god we can use SIVA's resources for the rescue operations.
 The new company president, Lee, has promised his full 
 cooperation. He's overlooking the rescue operations himself."

 "What about Mr. Tienllen?" Homei asks from inside the car.

 "Lee is looking for him right now. I'm sure they'll find him...
 I just know!"

 Elsewhere in town, two people examine the remains of something
 that used to be a famous bar..."

 'We've lost everything," Flamenco sighs, "it's all gone...
 but for some reason, I don't really mind. We can make a new
 start, eh boss?"
 "Sure," Iren says, "let's toast on that...on the house!"

 Not very far from that, two other persons are salvaging a
 devastated weapon shop.

 "Cough, cough.. Your new invention looks pretty impressive,
 Arya," Doc says, facing the enormous robot next to him.

 "Too bad my shop broke down... The new Isac model was
 crushed underneath..."

 "It's okay...we have Neoticus now, right?"

 She proudly looks up to her new mechanical friend.

 Meanwhile, Lee's Spinner craft discovered some new survivers.
 Two of them have been picked up from between the ruins.

 "Erfas, Macgregor, I never thought I'd see you guys again..."

 "Sorry we're late. Resurrection takes time, you know. But
 we kept our former bodies, we knew you'd like that..."
 "We knew you'd find us, Master Lee."

 "I'm glad to have you back."
 "For you, Master Lee, we'd come back from the dead a thousand
 times if neccesary!"

 "Listen, my friends. I'm looking for that Diver, Tienllen.
 If you see a sign of him on the scanner, let me know!"

 "Your wish is our command!"
 

LATER...

 "Master Lee, heath source at 10 o clock. Definitely human, now
 within visual range..."
 "It's Tienllen! No doubt about it!"

 It is indeed Tienllen, walking through the ruins below. He 
 hears the sound of the Spinner's engine and looks up.

 "So, they finally found me. I hope they have some ciggies to
 spare...I'd give my last 1000 dollars for that!"

 A little later, Tienllen is dropped of with Meiphen and Homei.

 "Tienllen...You're okay, I knew it!"
 "Huh? You're not using abusive language to me as usual?"
 "Silly...I don't feel like talking right now..come here..."
 
 That same day R. Mortimer, former resistance member, and part
 of Hongkong's new provisional government sends out a radio
 message for the whole world to hear:

 THE CITY OF ILLUSIONS IS NO LONGER... IT IS NOW BUT A BAD
 DREAM FROM THE PAST...

 And years later, when the inhabitants of twice-rebuilt
 Hongkong walk the streets late at night, they aren't afraid 
 of whatever is lurking in the dark. They know there is a
 Diver guarding them...


 FIN
