*** MSX CD Extension version 0.41
*** Copyright (C) 1995,1996 Taro Kashiwazaki.
*** All rights reserved.

This is tiny references of MSX CD Extension.
A Google-translated version of the original Japanese manual is available below.

New in this version #0.41 (fixed by Louthrax):
*Fixed bug in the MSX-DOS 2 function 4Ah (Move file handle pointer)
when using method 2 (Relative to the end of the file). The addition
logic to compute the new file offset was wrong.

Files:

This software includes following 5 files.

MSXCDEX.ENG	Tiny references written in English (this file)
MSXCDEX.MAN	MSX CD Extension manual (written in Japanese)
MSXCDEX.COM	MSX CD Extension executable file
MSXCDEX.HED	Abstruct for Japanese BBS (written in Japanese)
README.DOC	Message from author (written in Japanese)

To use MSXCDEX:

1.Set SCSI ID of CD-ROM #2.
2.Boot MSX-DOS2.
3.Leave 2 free segments(internal RAM).
4.Set MSXCDEX.COM in a directory with path.
5.To install.
  A>MSXCDEX_ -gscsi
  Last logical drive are reserved for CD-ROM.
  If you use MEGA-SCSI cartridge,remove ``-gscsi''.
6.To release.
  A>MSXCDEX -release
  Reserved logical drive are released.

NOTES:

1.Programs that use FCB are not available. Only File-handle.
2.Remove cache driver before install. Cache driver may conflict
  with MSXCDEX.



¦¦¦ MSX CD Extension version 0.40
¦¦¦ Copyright (C) 1995, 1996 Taro Kashiwazaki.
¦¦¦ All rights reserved.

Before using the MSX CD extension, this manual
Please read.

This software has two kinds of interfaces, MEGA-SCSI and Gouda SCSI
It corresponds to the face. The part with (M) in the manual
Is specific to MEGA-SCSI. Similarly, the part marked with (G)
It is a description specific to Gouda SCSI.

¦ Attention!

This software is a preliminary version.

As it seems that there are still many bugs and inconveniences, those who were used
Please report the operation status to the author.

¦ Restriction on the provisional version

Since this software is an incomplete provisional version, in the description of this manual
There are many parts to be opposed. I will give you such a part.

· The -id option is ignored even if it is set.

· There is no CD-DA control function call.

· CD-R (multi session) is not yet supported.

· The following BDOS functions can not be used for CD-ROM. Use
If you use it, except for FCB function, .INTER error
Will be returned. (Can be used for drives other than CD-ROM)

Function numbers 0fh to 17h, 21h to 28h (file access using FCB)
Function numbers 42 h, 44 h (file creation)
Function number 4 ch (File handle inspection)
Function number 4 dh - 51 h (file information change)

¦ What is the MSX CD extension?

The MSX CD extension (CD Extension) is MSX-
Extend the BDOS function of DOS 2 and compile CD-ROM conforming to ISO 9660
Allowing you to read in the same way as FD, HD and RAMDISK, always
It is parking software.

Furthermore, since the CD-DA control function can be used,
You can easily control CD-DA in a unified way.

? CD-DA is Compact Disc Digital Audio, which is commonly used
It is the standard of music CD etc. that it is doing.

¦ File structure

This software consists of the following four files
.

MSXCDEX.MAN manual (what you are reading now)
MSXCDEX.COM MSX CD Extension
MSXCDEX.HED Reprint header

¦ License Agreement

This software is free software. Gouda SCSI
The copyright other than the CD-ROM sector readout routine part of the driver for
Author 'Taro Kashiwazaki' owns it.

As long as we comply with the following license terms, all individuals and corporations
Use freely, redistribute (copy, reprint to the network,
You can transfer).

Also, I wish to create this software for use and redistribution
The author is not responsible for any damage or inconvenience.

1. Do not alter or delete the copyright notice of this software.
2. Do not redistribute only a portion of this software.
3. Do not redistribute modified version of this software.
4. Do not exchange money more than necessary at redistribution.
In case of redistributing for commercial purposes, advance authorization by the author is necessary.
5. Reports to the author at reprint. Before or after reprinting it is okay
No.

Operation model

MSX 2, MSX 2 +, MSX turbo R on MSX-DOS 2 (version 2.31 is recommended)
It works with.

MEGA-SCSI with version 2.10 or later kernel installed
, CD - ROM drive compatible with SCSI - 2 · CD - DA connected to it is required
is. (M)

NOVAXIS SCSI BIOS ROM with version number of 1.000 or more installed
CD-ROM compatible with SCSI-2 · CD-DA connected to it
Drive is necessary. The SCSI ID number of the CD-ROM drive must be 2
It will not. (G)

Two free segments of the primary mapper RAM slot are required.

? MEGA-SCSI is MSX dedicated SCSI designed and announced by Mr. Tsjikawa.
(M)

? NOVAXIS SCSI BIOS is copyrighted by KMcs and MSX CLUB Gouda
WD33C93A SCSI BIOS for SCSI cartridges.
Also, the MSX CD extension for Gouda SCSI is Henrik Gilvad
Quoted the CD-ROM sector readout routine created by Mr.
is. (G)

* Depending on the model of the drive, reading of CD-R and CD-ROM XA
It may not be possible.

¦ Operation confirmed drive

Currently the operation on the following CD-ROM drive is confirmed.

· PLEXTOR PX-43CS
· (PLEXTOR PX - 45CS (It is probably OK because it is an external type of PX - 43CS))
· Logitec LCD-550
· TOSHIBA XM - 4101TA (The contents of LCD - 550 is this)
· TOSHIBA XM - 5301TA (Please go into Logitec quadruple speed drive well
is)

¦ How to use

· Register CD-ROM drive (M)

First of all, a CD-ROM drive is registered as MEGA-SCSI's DOS drive
Register in the table. Registration is set up by ESET.COM etc
Please use it.

Once registered contents are backed up, so even if you turn off the power
It will not disappear.

* ESET.COM is Mega-SCSI setup tool of Taro.

Set the CD-ROM drive (G)

In advance, set the SCSI ID number of the CD-ROM drive to 2
I will.

· Make the CD extension resident

First, put MSXCDEX.COM in the directory where the path passed
please.

To make it resident, run MSXCDEX.COM on MSX - DOS 2
.

A: \> MSXCDEX [option]

Usually when using with MEGA-SCSI, it is OK without options
. (M)

For use with Gouda SCSI, specify the -GSCSI option
Please give me. Other options are usually not necessary. (G)

MSXCDEX.COM, when launched, moves the driver body to the mapper RAM
I will let the program of the CD extension reside.

? Resident of CD Extension, preferably as soon as MSX - DOS 2 starts
Please go to. Resident on child process such as filer
If this is done, the operation may become unstable.
Furthermore, it is not a problem to cancel the resident status anytime.

* Maybe a resident program such as disk cache and
The compatibility may be bad. Please be careful enough.

When resident, the following message is output.

MSX CD extension version 0.40
Copyright (C) 1995 Taro Kashiwazaki.
All rights reserved.
CD-ROM on drive d: is available.

For d: part, first upgrade the CD-ROM drive to the DOS drive
It will be the drive number of the record table. (M)

The part of d: is the last drive number used by Gouda SCSI
I will. (G)

After resident, you can use CD-ROM of d: drive.

If the resident fails, an error message is displayed, and if it is resident
I will not.

· Cancel resident of CD extension

To cancel the resident status, from the command line

A: \> MSXCDEX-release

Please.

MSX CD extension version 0.40
Released.

It will be displayed and the resident will be canceled.

¦ Command reference

A description of the options available in MSXCDEX.COM. Options are
You can use either upper case letters or lower case letters. Switch character
You can also use "/" in place of "-" for Tata.

Options other than -release make the CD extension resident
It is effective only at time.

Other options are ignored even if they are set.

-gscsi

Make the driver for Gouda SCSI resident. Use with MEGA-SCSI
Please do not specify it.

-id "..."

When recognizing the CD-ROM drive model, have the CD-ROM drive
Place a model recognition character string (such as vendor ID) on the one specified by ...
I will change.

The CD extension is connected to the CD-ROM at the time of resident
It recognizes the model of the camera and automatically performs the setting for each model.

However, if this setting does not work, it is connected
If you have a CD-ROM drive that is pseudo CD-ROM drive of another model
There are cases where it can be set well by making it recognize as if it is
I will do.

-release

I will cancel the resident of the CD extension.

When this option is set, all other options are ignored
Yes.

¦ Error Message and Countermeasure

** No free segment

Empty the mapper RAM segment where the CD extension resides.
I can not do it.

Reduce the capacity of RAMDISK, for example, free up the mapper RAM segment
Please make it.

** CD-ROM drive not connected

The CD - ROM drive is not connected.

This error,

· MEGA-SCSI is not connected (M)
· CD-ROM drive is not connected to MEGA-SCSI (M)
· Gouda SCSI is not connected (G)
· CD-ROM drive is not connected to Gouda SCSI (G)
· The SCSI ID number of the CD-ROM drive is not 2 (G)
· The CD-ROM drive does not support SCSI-2
· The CD-ROM drive is not turned on.

It occurs in case of such as. Please check these.

** Already installed

The CD extension already resides.

CD Extension can not be dual resident. Up
MEGA-SCSI driver and Gouda SCSI driver simultaneously reside
I can not make it.

** Not installed

The CD extension is not resident.

** Too scarce TPA

Make sure the TPA required for the CD extension loader to work
I could not keep it.

In order for the loader to operate normally, the upper limit of TPA is above C406h
It must not be in rank. With no other extra resident objects removed
Please activate the daughter.

** Wrong version of MSX-DOS

MSX-DOS currently running is compatible with CD extensions
not.

Using the version of MSX-DOS supported by the CD extension
please use it.

** No mapper BIOS

The system does not have a mapper support routine.

It is an error not normally occurring.

** Failed to initialize file-system

Initialization of the file system inside the CD extension failed
It was.

It is an error not normally occurring.

¦ Compatibility with ISO 9660

CD extension is for JIS X 0606 (Japanese Industrial Standard Information Exchange
CD-ROM volume and file structure) and programming
It is being done.

Corresponding to this standard The international standard is ISO 9660 (Information processing
- Volume and file structure of CD-ROM for information inter-
change), so if you use the CD extension you conform to ISO 9660
It is thought that you can read the CD-ROM you want without problems.

However, there are the following restrictions.

Logical sector length

Logical sector length must be 2,048 bytes.

Logical block length

Logical block length must be 2,048 bytes.

Extended attribute record

You can not access files with extended attribute records.

Interleave mode

You can not access files recorded in interleaved mode
Yes.

· File splitting

Each file must consist of one file split.

· File identifier

The file name must be 8 characters or less. File extension name must be 3 characters or less
something.

'CON', 'NUL', 'AUX', 'LPT', 'PRN'.

· Directory identifier

The directory name must be 8 characters or less.

Secondary volume descriptor

Within the directory hierarchy identified by the secondary volume descriptor
Information constituting the identified file can not be accessed.

Secondary volume descriptor, associated path table record, related
In directory records and associated directory records
The information recorded in each column of the extended attribute record to be changed is accessed
Can not.

¦ Compatibility with MSX-DOS 2

In consideration of compatibility with the standard MSX - DOS 2, the CD extension is
It is logged but compatibility is ensured for the following parts
It has been confirmed that it has not been done.

In addition, we will prepare a program expecting normal MSX - DOS 2 operation
In case you never comply with the specification of MSX - DOS 2 without following the contents of this chapter
Please.

If you create a program according to the contents of this chapter, that pro
Grams may be incompatible.

·redirection

When the CD extension is resident, the associated lidar of the CD-ROM drive
The write function does not work properly. (There is a fear of runaway.
It seems that ... is working properly for some reason. However, operation guarantee
I will not)

· Environment variable APPEND

When the CD extension is resident, APPEND for the CD-ROM drive
The function does not operate normally.

· Logical drive allocation

After resident CD extension, ASSIGN command or BDOS
Drive displayed when resident using function _ASSIGN
When you assign a CD-ROM drive to the outside, the drive is a CD extension
It is placed outside the management of the room, and it can be accessed by the BDOS function
lose. (There is fear of runaway when trying to access)

After resident CD extension, ASSIGN command or BDOS
To the drive displayed at the time of resident using function _ASSIGN
Even if you assign a drive other than the CD-ROM drive,
It will not be done normally.

· Root directory

In the CD-ROM, the root directory also contains directories '.', '..'
An entry exists. Both of these are root directories themselves
I show myself.

· Disk parameters

The return value of BDOS function _ALLOC, _DPARM for CD-ROM
Among them, values ??other than drive number, volume ID and sector size
Is invalid. (The sector size is 2,048)

JIS X 0606 regulates the volume ID as specified by MSX - DOS 2
Although it is not, in the CD extension, the basic volume
Volume based on CRC-32, the first 2,048 bytes of the descriptor,
I use it as an ID.

· File attributes

The read-only bit of the attribute of the directory in the CD-ROM is set to 1
It is getting.

· Contents of FIB (file information block)

The start cluster number of the FIB regarding the file in the CD-ROM is invalid
. For the file size of the FIB indicating the directory in the CD-ROM
It is the length of the directory.

· Disk error handling

If a disk error occurs when accessing the CD-ROM,
The error is output to the user program from the BDOS function A
It is informed as the return value of the register. Disk Error Processing Route
It is not passed to Chin. If passed, CD Extension
I did not hook the disk processing completely at the computer (do not intentionally hook it
There are two possibilities when you can not hook with bugs.
It is time. At that time write error reading drive d: and
It will be a strange error.

If a disk error occurs when accessing the CD-ROM, BDOS
The contents of the F, BC, DE, HL registers as return values ??of the function are not
It is fixed. The A register returns an error code (zero flag reset
), IX, IY, Bottom register set is called BDOS function call
Then I will return to the previous state.

· Internal information

FIB indicating files and directories on the CD-ROM, "inside
Part information "is completely different from that of MSX - DOS 2.

· "Get previous error code" function

Error on CD-ROM access with BDOS function _ERROR
Even if you try to acquire an error code, you get the appropriate error code
not.

· "Absolute sector read / write function" function

Can not perform BDOS functions _RDABS, _WRABS on CD-ROM
Hmm.

· Presence of unique functions

Function number 0ffh unique to CD extension extension
The assignment is assigned. In MSX - DOS 2 function number
Issue 0ffh is undefined.

func. Read CD-ROM logical sector
(Defined tentatively for operation test)
entry hlde = start sector number
b = number of sectors
ix = Transfer start memory address
c = 0ffh
return cy = 0: successful reading
cy = 1: Read failure
a = error code (details omitted)
modify all
note Rotate to pages 0, 1, 2, and 3 of the primary mapper slot
Sendable. One sector = 2,048 bytes.

¦ Programming guide

Version up profile

Version number Date released Summary
-------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
0.00 1995 - 1-19 · Incomplete preliminary version.
· Sector read function for operation test
Can be used only.
0.01 1995 - 2 - 3 - Incomplete preliminary version.
· Specification of sector read function
change.
· You can search files and directories
I made it.
0.02 1995 - 2-5 · Incomplete preliminary version.
· Setting and obtaining current directory
I made it possible.
· File and directory search behavior is
I made it to be stable.
0.03 1995 - 2-7 · Incomplete preliminary version.
· Di in sectors after 10000h sector
I fixed a bug where I can not search the Rectory.
· When pointers are searched for directories
I fixed the bug when I crossed.
0.04 1995 - 2-9 · Incomplete preliminary version.
· Reduced code size.
· Dust remains in FIB file name area
I improved the elephant.
· File open and readable
It came to be.
0.05 1995 - 2-11 · Incomplete preliminary version.
· Reading files larger than 16 MB
I corrected a bug that failed to appear.
· Between driver memory and user memory
Fixed major bug of data transfer routine.
· Fixed a bug in FCB inspection.
· Improved path name inspection method. Deterioration
maybe)
0.06 1995 - 2 - 15 · Incomplete preliminary version.
· MEGA-SCSI provisional correspondence.
· Reduced the code size further.
· Checked open files
I fixed the bug of Chin.
0.07 1995 - 3-20 · Incomplete preliminary version.
· Enhancement of function call, function addition
I added.
· Confirm some of undefined specifications
did.
- Fixed major slot bugs.
0.10 1995 - 5-31 · Incomplete preliminary version.
· Set the parameters of RESLOAD.COM to shell
I tried to hand it over.
· MEGA-SCSI fully compatible (new MEGA-SCSI
Function call entry address
Use)
· Read CD-ROM XA with Toshiba drive
I made it so.
0.20 1995- 9 - 5 · Changed resident method.
· Changed the file name of the loader.
(RESLOAD.COM -> MSXCDEX.COM)
0.30 1995-10-1 · Changed the manual.
· We made it possible to cancel resident status.
· Change the memory area used for resident.
· Can not return allocation information correctly
I fixed a bug.
0.40 1996 - 1 - 5 · Loader and driver main unit together
Motta.
· It corresponds to Gouda SCSI and others.

¦ Author's Contact

Opinion, impressions, other communication with this software, etc.
Once you have one of the following IDs (handle name is "Taro")
Please send it by e-mail to your e-mail address
I will.

CAT-CGNET CGN 22934
CAT-NET CAT 22934
FALCON-NET FALC0021
Illusion City TARO
Internet (up to '97. 2) b9244040@dnj.ynu.ac.jp
Laox - Jr .NET LAOX 1256
MARIO-NET TARO
Natsume Net NAT 26114
I can hear the voice of cherry blossoms CVN0007
Tokyo BBS TARO-K
etc.

??? MSX CD Extension version 0.40
??? Copyright (C) 1995, 1996 Taro Kashiwazaki.
??? All rights reserved.