Scenario of XTAZY

In the year 2126 people destroyed earth. The last ones that came away used large space ships that where in orbit for men testing how to survive there. Suddenly as war again started on earth this testing became reality.

Now even 73 years later 2199 men survive without gravity. During the years several space ships where on their way to search for life in the universe. 455 missions were made, 453 of them returned. One space ship that did not return, exploded, but the sec
ond one that has not returned yet seemed to have found something. Their last radio transmission was "They are alive krrrffffzfzfzfzzzfzfzzfzf fz fz fz zzz fz zf". Since that transmission almost 6 months have past in which men tried to reach them via dif
ferent frequencies.

After these 6 month a group of the best pilots there are, went on their way to find the last mission ship that was lost. They were pretty sure that the other space ship has found a sort of life. They also expected trouble there, but they did not know th
at it would come even worse.

Three further weeks of preparation time past. But finally the rescue mission was ready. 
They called it XTAZY. So in 2199 a large spaceship with 5 fighter ships on board took the direction of the lost mission ship. These men now have to pass a deep sleep phase for 24 years, before they get near the coordinates where the others got lost. Wel
l they did not care about these 24 years. So they slept!!!

---

After many years, the ship turns the power on and activates the regeneration chambers. After a couple of hours the first men stood up. They took a shower and made themselves ready for the mission.

As the first of them checked the console in the cockpit, he was more than surprised, I would say shocked. The year clock showed the year 3421. So more than 1000 years have passed. After alarming the others they checked the whole ship fore failiures. Alt
hough they searched long, the only thing that was clear, is the year 3421. They did not know why they survived that long, because the deep sleep chamber normly works for 200 years maximum. 
However though, the coordinates where the right ones. Not far from this place the mission of the others must have ended. 
They tried to get a radio contact to spacestation earth. They did not respond. It is clear that the transmission time delay has to be taken into consideration. But the strangest thing was, that even the survival beeper of spacestation earth did not seem
 to work. The only thing you could hear on the radio, was the normal space interference. Everything seemed to be dead.

After a certain time the crew accepted the situation. Although they were sure that they would not find anyone after such a long time, they explored the planets that where close to them, for evidence, of what could have happened.

They flew with the fighters to these planets, to look around. What they found was pretty interesting. They found destroyed planets. There must have been a war going on here. But why and when. Unfortunately there was no sign of the lost mission ship.

One of the fighters found something special. He was on the ice planet and there seemed to be a sort of black hole (warp zone). They decided to take a closer look at this hole. The strange thing about this hole was, that it was inside the planet. It was 
not easy to navigate but they reached this black hole. 

They said: There is nothing we can lose guys, so lets go through!
And, they did go through.....

Stage 1 (Crystal Caves Planet)
The way out on the other side!

You flie around and through the ice crystals. The mother ship is behind you and you have to shoot your way free, so that it can pass. In the beginning nothing is really moving, but after a certain time, the cristals fall down and it gets even worse to n
avigate. At the end there does not seem to be any way out. But suddenly the ice is moving appart. Instead there is a sort of large waterfall that is blocking. Shooting at a certain piece of ice will change the direction of the waterfall and the way is f
ree into outer space again. But where are we and what time are we. The on-board time unit shows different years and it is changing all the time. So we definitely are in a very strange part of the universe. 

Stage 2 (the comet attack)

The space ship stays where it is, and the 5 fighters are on its way to explore the outer regions and its planets. On the way to the first planets strange comets are approaching. Unfortunately they move toward you, as if you were a magnet. To shoot them 
does not help alot, you have to move around them, which is very difficult. To make this even worse, some comets grow green plants, that look like snake arms that try to grab you. Once in their hands they will squash you. But luckily those strange plant 
comets can be shot. This is not very easy, because some plant comets grow together and form a sort of super enemy comet, that has to shot appart again. After this horrible forms, the comet attack slowly ends. You are asking yourself what this was. We we
re surely looking for live forms, but not for those ones. But you are not giving up that fast. Where you can find plants you can maybe find some live forms. Lets just hope that those are not as dangerous as the plants.

Stage 3 (water planet)

Finally you arrive at the water planet, which is completely blue. There does not seem to be anything but water. To check out for live forms you prepare your fighter for underwater movement. But watch out, under water there are many currents, moving at d
ifferent speed. You cannot see those currents, but your ship will shake and change directions automatically. This makes it very difficult to navigate in the water, especially when checking out under water caves. Again some sort of green live form is att
acking you. That are not fish, but some sort of plants. Some of them are just moving its way, but are dangerous after touching.

Stage 4 (city planet)

Starting to explore this planet an alarm sounds. Destroy the city and the
enemies in order to find your friends imprisoned in the hart of the large
city center. Watch out for traps and large robots and machinery that will
work hard on you.

After successfully completing this task an outro will be played.

Stage X (crystal planet in the dark) Only on 1,3 and 4

Bonus Stage. You will find yourself on the same planet but in a dark corner.
Try to find as many options and bonuses as possible. Don't forget to pick up
the lamps, or you will not be able to finish these levels.



