                  Z 8 0    T U R B O    M O D U L A - 2

Modula-2  is  a  modern programming language  created  by  Niklaus  Wirth.
Similar to Pascal in many ways, anyone presently familiar with Pascal  can
easily  use Modula-2.  Modula-2 is a structured language,  lending  itself
well  to  the  techniques of structured programming, so it  makes  a  good
"teaching"   language  for  beginners  who  wish  to   learn   programming
fundamentals.  Modula-2 is a compiled language, so programs written in  it
execute many times faster than a comparable interpreted BASIC program.

Z80  Turbo Modula-2 was created by Borland International, the creators  of
Turbo  Pascal.   It  is an in-depth  and  professional  implementation  of
Modula-2  for Z80-compatible computers running a CP/M-80  compatible  disk
operating  system.  This includes Kaypro, Commodore 128, Morrow,  Osborne,
Amstrad,  and many other computers.  The Z80 Turbo Modula-2 package  comes
complete  with  500+  page manual; WordStar-like  programming  editor  for
creating  and  modifying program source code or any text  file,  compiler,
extensive  function  library  (modules),  and  installation  program   and
terminal descriptor database.  Everything needed to begin creating  useful
programs in Modula-2 has been included.

Z80 Turbo Modula-2 supports the following features:

     o Instant invocation of editor when the compiler detects  programming
errors.   You  can quickly correct the mistake, and the  compiler  resumes
where it left off.

     o Very fast compilation utilizing a one-pass method.

     o Extensive  function  library - 14 modules  incorporating  over  100
procedures.   Standard  Modula-2 modules such as InOut are  available,  in
addition  to  single  (6 digits) and double precision  (14  digits)  math,
command  line access and manipulation, input/output redirection, and  much
more.  You may also add your own extensions or replace existing modules as
you see fit.

     o Programs  can  be  organized with overlays; permits  code  size  to
exceed available memory.

     o Can  generate Z80 native code using an optional second pass of  the
compiler.

     o Bit manipulation and sets.

     o Easy inclusion of assembly-language routines in binary form, or  in
relocatable (REL) form.  Turbo Modula-2 can even search REL libraries  and
include only the routines of interest.

     o Extensions  to  Modula-2 include comfortable generalized  READ  and
WRITE  statements (like Turbo Pascal), string comparison  and  assignment,
multidimensional  open  arrays,  and exception  handling  to  control  the
program in case of errors.

     o The  compiler can optionally flag nonstandard statements to  ensure
portability  to other Modula-2 environments.  Programs written with  Turbo
Modula-2 can be portable to any other computing environment.


Turbo Modula-2 compared to Turbo Pascal:

     o Turbo Modula-2 has separate compilation.  This means that  whenever
a  change  is made in a supporting or dependent module, only  the  changed
module  must  be  recompiled.   This  is  especially  important  on  large
projects,  where  under Turbo Pascal, even the  smallest  change  required
recompilation  of  the entire project.  Unlike some other  languages  that
allow separate compilation, Modula-2 still performs full type and  version
checking between modules.

     o The  library  facilities  of  Turbo  Modula-2  allow  a  full   and
extensible set of primitives, which are not included in the final  program
unless  specifically requested by the programmer.  Thus, programs  can  be
optimized for size even though hundreds of library functions may exist.

     o Turbo  Modula-2 includes support for  coroutines  (multiprocessing)
and interrupt handlers.

     o Existing  Turbo  Pascal programs can be easily converted  to  Turbo
Modula-2.

     o Turbo   Modula-2  possesses  additional  numeric  types:   unsigned
integers  (CARDINAL), long integers (LONGINT), and long reals  (LONGREAL).
These allow greater precision and flexibility in mathematical calculations
and data handling.

The Z80 Turbo Modula-2 package includes:

     o Full-screen WordStar-like text editor
     o Turbo Modula-2 compiler
     o Turbo Modula-2 linker
     o Turbo Modula-2 menu shell
     o Z80 native code generator
     o Library manager
     o Full module library with more than 100 routines
     o Installation program
     o Utility to manipulate Microsoft REL files
     o Profiler utility for analysis of program performance
     o 500-plus page manual

The  price  of  the  Turbo Modula-2  package  is  $69.95,  which  includes
everything listed above.  This is a tremendous value for the price!

Visa/Mastercard,   personal   check,  or  UPS  COD   accepted.    Add   $6
shipping/handling  in  USA, actual cost elsewhere.  Shipments  will  begin
December 5th, 1986.

Echelon, Inc.
885 N. San Antonio Road
Los Altos, CA  USA  94022
415/948-3820 for orders and technical questions
415/489-9005 Z-Node Central 300/1200/2400 baud 24 hours
Telex 4931646

Trademarks:   Turbo Pascal, Turbo Modula-2, Borland  International;  CP/M,
Digital Research; WordStar, Micropro; Microsoft, Microsoft.
