
                            INFORMATIONS

  Notes about the music files:

  - They all are MSX BASIC programs. Some of them requires MSX2 (or
    better) to run. Most  files  requires FM synthesizer (FM-Pac or
    MSX-Music). To run any of them, type, at the BASIC screen:

    run"filename.ext

    Information  for  new  users: after  typing any  command, press
    <Return>  key to execute  it. Command  parser  system  is  case
    unsensitive, so upper and lower cases are just the same. To get
    the  list  of files in a disk, type "files". To run  an already
    loaded program, just type "run".

    All  files  were  tested  in  an MSX turbo R, although  all are
    supposed  to  run in  an MSX2 with FM  sound. Emulators with FM
    simulation are also supposed to run them. Some files require
    "kanji drive" to show graphics, but you can run them without it
    (it's not  necessary to play the  music). If some error occurs,
    you probably don't have  the required  hardware. Contact  me if
    you find any bug.

  - Files with file extension ".PSG" uses only PSG. Files with
    ".FM" extension requires FM sound (not exclusively). Files with
    ".BAS" extension are arrange versions from PSG musics.

  - I received  almost all  files  from  a friend. Some files  were
    corrupted when he first received them. He  tried to fix them at
    that time, but not  all could  be successfully  recovered. Some
    files were badly  converted  from their original sources (video
    games, arcades, magazine listings etc.) and I tried to make new
    arranges to make them  more enjoyable. Due to hardware problems
    and  lack  of  documentation  about  MSX  Music  BASIC extended
    commands, not all  arranges are "finished" (I  want  to  remake
    some when I find more information).

  - Most files  carried  no  copyright or  origin  information  and
    others  have questionable  data. If you  have more  information
    about any  of  them, please  let me know and I  will join it to
    this file.


  Data about the files:

  Compact name  "Title"/Extended name            Status
  ------------  -------------------------------  ------------------
  AirForce.FM   "Air Force"                      original music
                                                 by MA2
  BGM4    .FM   unknown title                    unknown author
  Departur.FM   "Departure"                      unknown author
  Dream   .PSG  "Dream"                          original music
                                                 (author ?)
  Farewell.FM   "Farewell"                       Konami music from
                                                 arcade game
                                                 "Gradius II"
  Grad3Ar5.FM   "Try to Star"                    Konami music from
                                                 arcade game
                                                 "Gradius III"
  Hinotori.BAS  Main BGM                         original/arrange
                                                 version of Konami
                                                 music from game
                                                 "Hinotori"
  MoonlitC.PSG  "Moonlight Coaster"              original from
                                                 unknown author
  PenAdvM1.FM   1st Stage BGM                    Konami arrange
                                                 version from MSX
                                                 game "Penguin
                                                 Adventure"
  PenAdvM3.FM   3rd Stage BGM                    Konami arrange
                                                 version from MSX
                                                 game "Penguin
                                                 Adventure"
  Quarth2 .FM                                    Konami music
                                                 collection from
                                                 game "Quarth"
  SayYes  .PSG  "Say Yes!"                       version (?) from
                                                 song performed by
                                                 Kikuchi Momoko
  SManbw1a.FM   "Battle Ship", 1st Stage BGM     Konami FM arrange
                                                 from MSX game
                                                 "Space Manbow"
                                                 (listed in the
                                                 OGS CD booklet)
  SManbw1b.FM   "Battle Ship", 1st Stage BGM     original arrange
                                                 from Konami game
                                                 "Space Manbow"
  Snatcher.FM   "Theme of Snatcher"              FM arrange from
                                                 MSX Konami game
                                                 "Snatcher"
  SpHarier.FM   "Space Harrier" Main Theme       arrange from the
                                                 Sega game
                                                 "Space Harrier"
  TGonsRGE.FM   "The Goonies 'R' Good Enough"    special Konami
                                                 arrange from
                                                 "The Goonies"
  TwinBee .FM   Twin Bee                         original Konami
                                                 arrange from
                                                 "Twin Bee"
