	Flash Rom Loader 2.3 (DOS 2 Compatible) for LPE-FLASH G
	(c) 2003 by Ramones and Manuel Pazos
	
	Userguide

1.- INDEX
	
	1.- Index.
	2.- Description of LPE-FLASH G board.
	3.- Tehcnical documentation of the LPE-FLASH G board.
	4.- Documentation of the Flash ROM memory Am29F040B.
	5.- FL2 Flash Rom Loader.
	6.- Parameters and options.
	7.- Errors.
	8.- Recommendations.
	9.- Building the program from sources
	10.- Contact the author and thanks.
	11.- Versions History

2.- DESCRIPTION OF THE LPE-FLASH G BOARD.

LPE-FLASH G board, in any of its versions (at the moment of writing this
documentation four are known) is a data storage device with a capacity
of 512KB.

The data is not volatile as it is stored in a Flash ROM memory type,
model Am29F040B made by AMD.

Performance is close to a MegaROM cart with ASCII mapper. It is also
possible to define its behaviour based on other configurations, such as 16KB
mapper ASCII or even controlling the memory pages through physical ports of
the MSX system.

The big advantage of this board is the possibility of simulating
ROM files (copies of the program stored in ROM cartridges) in a reliable and
efficient way, without needing a big amount of memory in the MSX computer.

The board works without problems in ANY MSX model, the only restriction is the
need of a disk drive for loading a program in memory . When this program
is loaded, then the program works in any MSX, including the first generation
if the program supports it.

Even though this board is used for 'game playing' in 90% of cases, its
capabilities and configuration options give us the possibility of creating many
utils for it. It is very handy if you want to create a game in ROM format. Then
you have a reliable tool for testing before building the final cart. This board
can be considerated as a transfer method too and even could be very interesting
to create new utils which don't require system resources (memory), such as a
disassembler.


3.- TECHNICAL DOCUMENTATION OF LPE-FLASH G BOARD.

LPE-FLASH G board consists of four parts :

[] MSX cartridge board
[] Configuration Jumpers / Switches
[] PLD Controller.
[] FlashROM type memory, model Am29F040B by AMD.

	* MSX cartridge board :

	MSX cartridge board, similar to a Konami.

	* Configuration Jumpers / Switches :

	Four Jumpers / switches which define the different states and
	possibilities. Even though the position of them changes between models,
	they are named the same way:
	
	- 8K 16K Size : Selects the mapper type which will use the board.

	- Slot On     : This is for turning on / off the board.
 	
	- R&W RD      : With this one we can write-protect the memory if set to
			RD. For storing the program in Flash, R&W must be set.
			
	- IO / Slot   : Defines the selecting pages for a given mapper mode
			together with the 8K 16K jumper / switch.

	* PLD Controller. 
		
	This contoller takes care of the memory paging system and creates the
	physical or memory ports. In short, this is the device which does the
	communication between Flash Memory and MSX.
	
	* Flash ROM Memory.

	As PLD, this is the most important chip in the board.
	This device stores the desired program and makes it 'visible' in any
	page of the MSX System.
	
As we have said before, LPE-FLASH G board has four physical ports through which
we can control the pages of the mapper of the cartridge as we desire.

Those ports work depending on the mapper type selection and in both mapper
modes (IO / Slot). They are:

05Ch : 	It does the paging of the 04000h - 05FFFh memory area in 8K 
	configuration, or the 04000h - 07FFFh area, in 16K mode.

05Dh : 	This port is only used if the mapper mode is 8K. It does the paging
	in the 06000h - 07FFFh area.

05Eh :  As 05Ch, it has 2 modes depending on the mapper mode. It handles the
	08000h - 09FFFh area in 8K and 08000h-0BFFFh in 16K.

05Fh : 	Close to 05Dh, it is only useful in 8K mapper mode. Involved memory
	addresses are 0A000h - 0BFFFh.

	So, for example, to locate the bank 8 in the area 08000h - 09FFFh, 
	or 08000h - 0BFFFh for 16 K banks , something like this should be done:
		
		ld	a,8
		out	(05Fh),a



The other mode of paging which is provided by the board is similar to the modes
which are found in many megarom cartridges by ASCII Corp. To use this mapping, 
it is necessary to have the jumper / switch set in SLOT mode.

Note : The mapping mode by ports (I/O), works in both mapping modes.

Mode ASCII	 8 K:

	Divides the memory in 4 banks of 8KB each:

	Bank 0 : 04000h - 05FFFh
	Bank 1 : 06000h - 07FFFh
	Bank 2 : 08000h - 09FFFh
	Bank 3 : 0A000h - 0BFFFh

	And the addresses for exchanging the page are:
	
	Bank 0 : 06000h - 067FFh (Normally used 06000h)
	Bank 1 : 06800h - 06FFFh (Normally 06800h)
	Bank 2 : 07000h - 077FFh (Normally 07000h)
	Bank 3 : 07800h - 07FFFh (Normally 07800h)
	
	So, for locating bank 8 in the area 08000h - 09FFFh :
	
		ld	a,8
		ld	(07000h),a	; Any address 07000h - 077FFh

Mode ASCII 16 K:

	Set the mapper selection jumper / switch to 16 K
	It divides the memory banks in two 16KB banks.

	Bank 0 : 04000h - 07FFFh
	Bank 1 : 08000h - 08FFFh

	And the addresses for exchanging the page of the bank :

	Bank 0 : 06000h - 067FFh 
	Bank 1 : 07000h - 077FFh

	So, for locating page 3 in bank 0 :

		ld	a,3
		ld	(060FFh),a


Finally, the position of the jumpers when a program is going to be stored
or executed, similar in FL.COM and FL2.COM:

	For storing (from file to flash):

	[] 8K 16 K Size : 16 Ks
	[] Slot On 	    : On
	[] R&W RD	    : R&W
	[] I/O  Slot    : I/O	 	

	To execute the program:

	[] 8K 16K Size 	: It depends on the program, most of cases 8K
	[] Slot On	      : On
	[] R&W RD	      : RD
	[] I/O Slot	      : Slot

It has to be said that when executing a ROM program -when resetting (booting
the MSX)- and the flash board is plugged, the program will execute itself. To
avoid this the Slot On jumper/switch has to be set to OFF. After the OS is
loaded, then it can be switched ON.


4.- DOCUMENTATION OF FLASH ROM MEMORY Am29F040B

The memory Am29F040B is a 4 Megabit (512 x 8 bit) chip, of type CMOS 5.0 V
Uniform Sector Flash Memory.

The 512 Kbytes of data are divided in 8 sectors of 64 Ks each one.

This is a 'programmable' device which has some 'commands' for communicating
with the Flash and be able to erase and program it.

This device -not exactly the same model but from the same family- is already
widely used in MSX devices. The Sunrise IDE controller is an example of it.

Without the intention of converting this in a technical manual of the chip
-for that it is recommended to use the documentation provided at the AMD home
page- we will explain the commands used in this program (FL2).

All the commands work the same way. A byte sequence has to be written
in some memory areas of the flash device, those zones depending on the command
type used. So, we have from 1 cycle commands to 6 cycles ones, where each cycle
corresponds to 1 writing in the memory at the indicated address.

For the explanation we will use the same terminology.
On the one hand we'll specify the address and on the other hand the value to be
written in that address. Ex :
		x555 addr
		0AAh value.

This means that we have to write at the x0555 address the value 0AAh, whereby x
is any address where the flash is mapped in.


[] Device ID.
	
This is a 4-cycles command. It returns a value which shows the flash type we
are using (in the case it is from the same family). In our case, the returned
value is 0A4h.

	* First Cycle :

		x555h	addr.
		 0AAh	value.

	* Second Cycle:
		
		x2AAh	addr.
		 055h	value.

	* Third Cycle:	

		x555h	addr.
		 090h	value.

	* Fourth Cycle:
		
		In any adress with the ending xx01h it'll be get the value 0A4h
		
	
	This command is used by Fl2 to detect the slot where the cartridge is
	placed or for detecting the presence. For more information, the
	subroutine CHECKFLASH -in the sources- makes use of this command.

[] Chip Erase :

This is a 6-cycle command. Its result is to erase ALL of the flash memory
contents. This command doesn't need any byte write checking, because the same
command waits for the value that has been introduced in the flash memory for
stepping to the next one. The waiting time for the complete erasing of the
flash in a MSX, is around 8 secs approximately.

	* First Cycle :
	
		x555h	addr.
	 	 0AAh	value.
	
	* Second Cycle :
		
		x2AAh	addr.
		 055h	value.

	* Third Cycle :	
		
		x555h	addr.
		 080h	value.

	* Fourth Cycle :

		x555h	addr.
		 0AAh	value.

	* Fifth Cycle :
		
		x2AAh	addr.
		 055h	value.

	* Sixth Cycle :
		
		x555h	addr.
		 010h	value		

Once the sixth cycle is executed we must wait around 8 secs for being able to
execute the next command.
The FL2 subroutine ERASEFLASH makes use of this command.

[] Sector Erase.

This function is close to the previous command, but here we only erase a 64KB
sector. The cycles are EQUAL to CHIP ERASE, but sixth cycle which is explained
here:

		xSAh	addr.
		030h 	value.

The address 0SAh is that of the sector to erase. So, as FL2 does,
it maps through port 05Ch to erase the first page of each sector. 
For understanding this command study the subroutine ERASEFLASH from FL2.
This routine has a longer waiting time, taking 2 seconds per erased sector.


[] Program.

This is the command used for writing 1 byte in flash memory. This is a command
which has to be executed byte per byte. It is not possible to write in bigger
portions, pages or sectors. Even in this way it is a very fast command.
This is a 4 cycles command.

	* First Cycle :
		
		x555h	addr.
		 0AAh 	value.

	* Second Cycle :

		x2AAh	addr.
		 055h	value.

	* Third Cycle :

		0555h	addr.
		 0A0h	value.

	* Fourth Cycle :

		PAh	addr.
		PDh	value.

	In this fourth cycle we have to write the address where we want
	the desired byte to be written. The writing is NOT finished instantly
	and some microseconds are needed to make sure that the value is really
	written. Once the value is written it is read from the address to check
	if the value is there. The check is repeated twice. In the case that
	the value is not there, there are some possibilities: the flash is
	write-protected, any step failed, or there is another problem.
	
	For a better understanding of the command, read the
	subroutine WRITEFLASH in the source of FL2.


[] Reset

	This command makes the flash ready for a new command. 
	It is necessary to execute this command before each of the other
	commands previously explained. This is a 1-cycle command.

	* First Cycle :

		XXXXh	addr.
		 0F0h	value.

	where XXXX is any address of the flash memory.



5.- FL2 FLASH ROM LOADER.

FL2 is an util which load programs, ROM files and data, in the Padial's
LPE-FLASH G board. The function is similar to his predecessor's one, FL.COM,
which was coded by Jose Angel Morente (Jam Soft). From FL.COM has been kept the
easeos use, adding some new characteristics:

	[] Total compatibility with DOS2, file loading from CDROM
	or any other device used with this OS is possible.
	 
	[] Possibility of using paths in DOS2.

	[] Possibility of full erase of the memory without executing any other
	action.
		
	[] Possibility of executing a stored program after the loading process
	or without this loading.

	[] BIOS patched for keyboard and japanese system emulation.
	
	[] BIOS patched for keyboard and european / american system emulation.

	[] Possibility of booting the program in NTSC (60Hz) or PAL (50hz)
	without needing to patch the program.

	[] Possibility of executing the program in R800 mode (only with MSX
	turboR computers) without needing to patch the program.

	[] Total compatibility of the options in DOS1 and DOS2 and with the
	check of the parameters which don't need hierarchy.

	[] Possibility of partial or full erasing before the loading of a file.

	[] Possibility of loading files from 1 byte to 512 Kbytes. FL.COM was
	not able to do it.

Its functioning is very easy:

	FL2 /params FILE.ROM /params.

The parameters can be placed before or after the filename (FILE.ROM) to load
(see the line above). Some examples:

	FL2 E:MGALIOUS.ROM /5 /8 /R

	FL2 /N /R /E

	FL2 /R MGALIOUS.ROM /6

	FL2 /D

	FL2 /S /R C:\ROMS\MGALIOUS.ROM /5


FL2 can be used in the same way as the predecessor by only executing the next
instruction from the same device and directory where the file and the program
FL2.COM are:

	FL2 FILE.EXT

FL2 will then initiate the loading process of the file.

6.- PARAMETERS AND OPTIONS.

FL2 has some options for configuring the program, the loading of the file or
its execution.


	/h : Show Help. It shows the online help of the FL2 program. It will
	be also	shown if /? is used or if no parameters are used.
	
	/r : Run Loaded Game. This option will execute the stored program after
	confirmation  by the userby pressing the <SPACE> key.
	It should be remembered that this option is for executing
	ROMs, not for executing other type of programs stored in the flash
	memory.
	
	/e : Run and emulate European Keyboard. This option and the next one
	make use of an easy trick for patching the ROM BIOS of the computer
	and let the possibility of changing the language in some ROMs.
	FL2 searches inside the ROM the keyboard and mode checking of the
	computer during the loading of the ROM and patches it to European.
	
	/j : Run and emulate a Japanese Keyboard. As the previous option, it
	only patches the ROM for emulating a japanese computer.

	/8 : Run in R800 mode. This option is only valid for MSX turboR
	computers. It will execute the program (if /r is used) with the R800
	active. As /e and /j it will be only valid if the program is executed
	by FL2.
	
	/5 : Run in PAL mode (50hz). This option will execute the program
	with 50Hz of vertical refresh. This one only works with MSX2 computers
	or higher and this effect is finished until the computer is reset.
	
	/6 : Run in NTSC mode (60Hz). As the previous option but changing the
	vertical refresh to 60 Hz.
	
	/d : Delete all sectors. By selecting this parameter, any other 
	parameter will be ignored. FL2 will erase the complete flash memory and
	will exit of the program.
	
	/s : Delete all sectors on load. With this option, the flash will be
	fully erased instead of only erasing the necessary sectors, not
	depending on the file size of the file to load.

	/n : No load, use loaded game. This parameter only disables the file
	loading. So it is not necessary to use a file as parameter for storing
	it in flash memory. FL2 will execute the other parameters and the game
	which is already stored in the flash.
	Of course, executing this option with together with the /r option.
		
More examples:

	FL2 MGALIOUS.ROM 
	
	Load MGALIOUS.ROM file in the flash and the program finishes.

	FL2 /R MGALIOUS.ROM /5

	Load MGALIOUS.ROM file in the flash and will execute the program
	once it is stored, setting the vertical refresh to 50 Hz.

	FL2 /N /R /E

	Execute the program which is stored in the flash 
	emulating the european keyboard.



7.- ERRORS.

Error messages description shown by FL2 and their causes.

	[] LPE - FLASH G not found : 

	Message :
	
	Ooops! Flash Rom not Found!!
	Please check the 'slot on / off' switch.

	Cause :
	
	The flash is not plugged in the computer, the jumper / switch
	Slot On / Off is set to Off or the board is damaged.
	
	Solution :
		
	Revise the jumpers / switchs, and if it is necessary turn the computer
	off and insert the board again. If this does not help contact
	Leonardo Padial.

	[] File error, not found or damaged :

	Message :
	
	ERROR: Problems opening file ...
	
	Cause:
	
	The file passed as parameter is not found in the specified device or
	directory or the system is damaged and there are problems reading.
	
	Solution :

	Revise the parameters and check if the file is really is present in
	the specified directory and device.


	[] File Size > 512 KB.

	Message :
	
	ERROR : File size > 512 Ks

	Cause :

	The specified file is bigger than 512 KB. It is not possible to load
	files over 512 KB in the board.
	
	[] Problems writing the file in the board.

	Message :

	ERROR: Problems writing Flash Rom ...

	Cause :

	The flash is write protected or the jumpers are not correctly selected
	for storing the data. 

	Solution :

	Revise the jumpers and set them as explained in point 3.


8.- RECOMMENDATIONS.

FL2 has many possibilities but it can give some headaches
to the user if this one doesn't know what he really does.

As examples of usage, there is a possibility of simulating other carts before
executing the one who was just stored in flash. Of course, this can't be
made directly by FL2, but maybe the user knows how to do that.

The possibility of changing the palette is also possible (MSX2 or higher)
before executing the game.

Another use is to load / save the savegames in HARD DISC. It can be very nice
but it can be REALLY DANGEROUS.

Not all the games which load / save the savegames do it in a file, some of
them use SECTORS and if it is saved in that way in the hard disc, it can
damage the used partition.

Of course the author does NOT ASSUME ANY RESPONSABILITY of any damage which
can occur by using this program. 

It should be added that FL2 has been widely tested with different MSX models
and on configurations with no problems.


9.- BUILDING THE PROGRAM FROM SOURCES

The FL2.LZH package comes with the sources of the FL2 program, in four formats:

	[] TASM : FL2.ASM, this file can be assembled with the crossed
	assembler TASM, which is available in many sites, and is
	added to the programs made by Borland. 
	The parameters for assembling the source :
	
	TASM -i -e -a13 -80 -b FL2.ASM FL2.COM
	
	For making it correctly, it is necessary to have the TASM80.TAB
	which has the tables of the Z80 microprocessor.
		
	TASM has multiple versions for different computers and OS's.
	We will execute the TASM program for our system.
		
	[] CHAOS ASSEMBLER 3 : FL2.CAP + FL2.ASM. The same FL2.ASM is valid
	for the Z80 assembler for PC Windows, Chaos Assembler 3. It comes 
	with the file project (FL2.CAP) ready.
	
	
	[] COMPASS : FL2.ASC : Source file ready for the MSX Assembler Compass
	by CompJoetania. Even if the source is ready, for visualizing it
	correctly in the Compass editor is useful to change the label size
	to 20.
	
	[] DEVPAC GEN80 : FL2.ASC is the same file used by Compass.
	The only change to do to the source is erase the line :
	
		.label 20
		
	Then it can be assembled with the next parameters:
		
		GEN80 FL2.ASC ;S 20 F U+
		
	Using GEN80 the assembled file size will change of the other assembled
	versions with other assemblers (the reason is because GEN80 is
	CP /M compatible). It doesn't matter, the file will work perfectly.
	

10.- CONTACT THE AUTHOR AND THANKS.

For any suggest, doubt or recommendation, just contact with :

Armando Perez Abad (Ramones)

e-mail : armando.perez@wanadoo.es

snail mail :

	C/ Santo Tomas 2-21
	46100 Burjassot
	(Valencia)
	SPAIN


For contacting the manufacturer of the LPE-FLASH G board :

Leonardo Padial Ortiz 

e-mail : lpadial@teleline.es


The author wants to thank grateful for their support and help, in any order:

	[] Nestor A. Soriano aka Konamiman : for his SIGSLOT routine.

	[] Franciso Alvarez aka Babea (Saeba) : Because of the translation into
	english of the source comments, of this manual and of the LEEME.TXT.
	I also wanted to thank him his help testing the program and letting me
	use part of the source of his Steria.bin program.

	[] Leonardo Padial : Because of being always there, offering quality
	and new products for the MSX, like this board.

	[] Jose Angel Morente aka Jam : for creating FL.COM 

	[] David Fernandez aka Imanok / Steria / Sopra Bull: Because of his
	constant recommendations and suggestions for the program and also
	thanks for helping with the betatesting.
	
	[] Manuel Pazos : He has collaborated on this version adding the
	compatible turboR routines. The turboR owners will enjoy a much faster
	load. He created the patching routine of the ROM for simulating
	the european and japanese keyboard too.
	
 And of course thanks you for using this program.

11.- HISTORIA DE VERSIONES:

[] FL2 1.0 : 
	
	ROMs and Files loading support.
	
[] FL2 2.0: 
	
	BIOS patching for emulating japanese & european modes added.
	It has errors with files bigger than 16KB and with not 'standard'
	size when they are loaded or stored.
	
[] FL2 2.2:	

	First version which comes inside FL2.LZH package. It keeps the same
	errors that the previous version.
	
[] FL2 2.3 : (This version)

	Problems with files of any size fixed.
	Loading, storing & erasing routines speeded up.
	R800 support for loading / erasing.
	ROM patching for emulating the european / japanese keyboard in the
	ROM itself.

(c) Armando Perez Abad (Ramones), January 2003