Credits
Game Concept, Graphics & Musics: Jon Cortazar Abraido
Coding, Extra FX: Eduardo A. Robsy Petrus
Testing: Salva Perugorría Lorente

FACTORY
INFECTION
Instruction Manual

ORIGINAL GAME, © 2004 KAROSHI CORP. MSX IS A REGISTERED TRADEMARK OF THE
MSX ASSOCIATION (JAPAN). ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. PROGRAMMED BY
EDUARDO A. ROBSY PETRUS & JON CORTAZAR ABRAIDO (SPAIN) FOR EDUCATIONAL PURPOSES ONLY.
Connect the EAR jack of your MSX to the PHONES entry of your CD Player. Adjust the volume of
your CD Player to aprox. 3/4. Type BLOAD "CAS:",R and press RETURN. Press PLAY on your CD
Player. The game will start loading. If not, try adjusting the volume again and repeat the process.
When a disk drive is present, remember to press SHIFT key while booting the computer.

8 KB

RK705

System requirements:
16KB RAM / 16KB VRAM

RK705

Introduction

The Elements

Have you ever asked yourselves from where the videogames come?. If
you think that creating games is a hard work where programmers, artists,
musicians and much people are involved, you are mistaken. In fact,
videogames are created at huge automatic factories, with immense
production lines. Believe me, it's true!. I have seen them and they are
really impressive!. And Karoshi Corporation has one of the greatest factories
of ideas and concepts, where their games for MSX1 are born.

These are the different objects you'll find in the Facory:

Everything worked perfectly until that fatal day: the day in which a
tremendous computer virus infected the automatization system of Karoshi's
factory. They are still trying to find the identity of the malicious programmer
of the virus, but, meanwhile, there is a pile of bad ideas, terrible graphs
and crappy musics that are being strained in their MSX productions. It's
necessary to try to destroy them. But Eduardo and Jon are occupied trying
hard to design an anti-virus to finish definitively with the problem. Can
you help them to fight against the virus and to save the new Karoshi's
releases?.

This is concept, an idea. Probably it is the start point of a new
Karoshi production, who knows.
This groovy musical note is the base of a lively song that will be
part of the background music of a video game
A robust well-built piece of code, hard tested for its perfect
operation. Probably a simply but necessary routine.
A nice penguin-like graphic. Don't you think is perfect for making
an MSX1 platform game?.
In the process of making games, it's recomended to save as
many backups as you can. This is a security backup!.
Well, here we have a complete font, ready to use in a game,
with all needed characters defined.

How to Play
Your goal will consist of destroying the bad graphs and ideas that are
being strained in the factory because of the virus. The elements that
conform a videogame are apearing through a conveyor belt from the right
of the screen to the left. When you see something that has been generated
by the virus, you will have to destroy it before it arrives at the end of the
conveyor belt.
For that purpose, you count with two powerful lasers, one in the left zone
that moves from top to bottom and another one in the right zone that
moves from left to right. You will pass the stage when you obtain the quota
of ideas necessary to produce a videogame. Be brave, since each
videogame will be harder to create, the quota of concepts will raise and
the speed of the conveyor belt will increase. Ah, one thing more!. You have
only 3 misses in each screen. A failure will be counted if an object created
by the virus is not destroyed and arrives at the end of the conveyor belt
and if you destroy an object that has not been generated by the virus. Be
sure to get the correct timing using your lasers!: when you shoot, the
cannons will be slower!. And also, when you stop firing, the laser will stay
active a little bit!. How many videogames can you create before the virus
appropriates the productions of Karoshi Corporation?.

This is a graphic for a shoot'em up game!. Travel the skies with
this amazing spaceship!.
And here is the virus that is infecting the whole system. You
must destroy the infected elements, so... shoot at him!.
One of your powerfull laser cannons, ready to destroy every
object, infected or not. Use it to kill damaged elements.

Controls
Cursor Up
Cursor Down
Cursor Right
Cursor Left
Space Key

Joystick Up
Joystick Down
Joystick Right
Joystick Left
A Button/Trigger

> Move left cannon up
> Move left cannon down
> Move right cannon right
> Move right cannon left
> Shot both cannons

