
============================================
     ALADIN USER MANUAL ENGLISH VERSION
============================================


  Alessandro  Sala
  Lorenzo Barbieri


    ALADIN  1.0
    User Manual
  ENGLISH version





(c)1993 ALADIN PRESS

--- end of page ---


Composition and Paging by ALADIN 1.0

Alessandro Sala, Lorenzo Barbieri
ALADIN 1.0 User Manual

(c) ALADIN PRESS and ALADIN SOFTWARE


1st revision: May 1993 by Alessandro Sala, Lorenzo Barbieri
2nd revision: Sep 2010 by KdL

English Version

This manual and software may not, in whole or in part,
be reproduced in any form or by any means, electrical,
electronic, papery, biological, mechanical, pneumatic,
metaphysical, psychological, fluid, not even for didactic
or demonstrative purposes, without the written permission
signed by both the authors. 

Printed on our own

--- end of page ---


INTRODUCTION

Congratulations for having bought ALADIN 1.0, the best DTP program 
for MSX 2, 2+ and TURBO R. If you are already familiar with DYNAMIC PUBLISHER
by RADARSOFT, this manual will tell you how to use the new functions not found
in DYNAMIC PUBLISHER and explain the modified or enhanced ones.
If, on the other hand, you are not familiar with DYNAMIC PUBLISHER, you will
find all the explanations you need to use this program at best.
ALADIN is an open software. We will make available various extensions.By using
the EXTRAS menu, extensions will allow new functions in a very simple way,
without having to modify the main program.
Moreover, we will publish a six-monthly newsletter (in English) that will
inform you about new extras, options, will resolve your doubts etc.
This publication will be absolutely free for all registered users of  
ALADIN.

THE PACKAGE OF ALADIN 1.0 CONTAINS THE FOLLOWING:

- ALADIN ROM KERNEL v1.0
- ALADIN INSTALL DISK
- ALADIN FONTS
- ALADIN EXTRAS DISK
- ALADIN'S USER MANUAL
- REGISTRATION CARD AND ENVELOPE

IF ANY OF THESE ELEMENTS IS MISSING PLEASE CONTACT DIRECTLY YOUR DEALER
IN CASE OF PARTICULAR PROBLEMS YOU CAN TURN TO THE ADDRESS SHOWN AT THE
END OF THIS MANUAL.

--- end of chapter ---

CONTENTS



INTRODUCTION

1.  INSTALLATION OF THE PROGRAM

2.  COMMANDS

    2.1 Mouse, TrackBall and Keyboard
    2.2 The cursor
    2.3 Pull-Down Menus
    2.4 DISK menus

3.  The TOOLS menu

    3.1  Drawing TOOLS

4.  The OPTIONS menu

    4.1  COLORS
    4.2  LOG.OP
    4.3  PAGE
    4.4  GRAPHICS
    4.5  TABLES and AEROGRAPH
    4.6  PAINT MODE
  4.6.1  PATTERN EDITOR
    4.7  FONT
  4.7.1  FONT EDITOR
    4.8  PRINTER
    4.9  UNDO/REDO

5.  The PICTURES menu

    5.1  GET PIC
    5.2  PUT PIC
    5.3  MIRROR and REVERSE
    5.4  LOAD and SAVE PIC and STP
    5.5  SHOW PIC
    5.6  TRASP. and OR-SIZE

6.  The TEXT menu

    6.1  TEXT
    6.2  COLUMNS
    6.3  SHOW COLUMNS, INTERLINE and CLEAR COLUMNS
    6.4  TEXT TO COL
    6.5  LAYOUT
    6.6  The TEXT EDITOR

7.  The SYSTEM menu

    7.1  Clock setting
    7.2  SETTINGS
    7.3  DISK
    7.4  ABOUT

8.  The EXTRAS menu

    8.1  What are the EXTRAS ?
    8.2  INSTALL and REMOVE LAST EXTRA
    8.3  EXTRAS developing

9.  Tricks and practical examples

    9.1  The PAINT function
    9.2  The REMAP COLOURS function
    9.3  Importing pictures from other formats

10. Assistance, Advice and Updates

    10.1 Technical assistance and advice
    10.2 Updates
    10.3 ALADIN Magazine
    10.4 Developing EXTRAS and software that interacts with ALADIN
    10.5 Collaborations
    10.6 ALADIN and the BBS

APPENDIX A - Useful keystrokes

--- end of chapter ---

CHAPTER 1 - INSTALLATION OF THE PROGRAM

ALADIN 1.0 needs the following hardware configuration :

- MSX 2 computer (at least)
- MSX DOS and DISKBASIC 1.x (at least)
- One 720Kb DiskDriver
- 512Kb RAM (Memory Mapped)
- 1 MB Recommended  
- 128Kb VRAM

The MSX DOS 2.20 version correctly handles harddisks, allowing a complete
handling of directories and partitions.
To install the EXTRAS you need at least 768Kb of memory, because the
basic 512Kb of RAM are completely utilized.
It is strongly recommended the use of an accelerator board (Z80H @ 7MHz), or
a TURBO R computer (with an internal or external RAM expansion).
To install ALADIN , run the program INSTALL found in the INSTALL disk.
The installation is completely guided and it doesn't present any difficulties.
You must only decide where you want ALADIN to be installed, if you want the
UNDO or not, the extras, and so on.
The cartridge containing the ROM-Kernel can be inserted in any primary or
secondary slot and must be present during the installation process.



--- end of chapter ---

CHAPTER 2 - THE COMMANDS

2.1 Mouse, trackball and keyboard

The program can be controlled by mouse, trackball or keyboard.
Mouse and trackball are mutually exclusive: you cannot use
them simultaneously. The keyboard usage can be mixed with
mouse or trackball.
During startup the program checks to see what input device is connected,
and selects it. During program execution you can force a new check, just
in the case mouse or trackball weren't connected during startup.
In the following the term 'mouse' will refer to both mouse and trackball.
The program uses a proprietary device read routine, optimized for use with a
3 or 7 MHz computer. If you are using a TURBO R you can select the standard 
ROM BIOS routine instead.
The left mouse button (or the spacebar) generally selects options and confirms
choices.
The right mouse button (or the DEL key) make you exit from the active function
and aborts choices.
During keyboard usage the following keys are active (CURSORS = CURSOR KEYS) :
SHIFT + CURSORS  - Multiply cursor movements by 10
CTRL  + CURSORS  - One-step cursor movements
CODE  + CURSORS  - Changes the active quadrant (only during drawing functions)
A       - Changes the active column      (only during drawing functions)
C       - Changes the active colour      ( "     "       "        "    )
O       - Changes the active logic oper. ( "     "       "        "    )
A,C, and O can be upper or lower case.

2.2 The cursor

The program employs two types of cursor, indicating the operating mode.
The little cross cursor indicates select or move mode.
The big cross cursor indicates drawing mode.
Select mode is when you open menus.
In move mode you can modify the part of page currently shown by
dragging the scroll bars o by clicking one of the four arrows in the top
right corner of the screen. You can enter the select mode from the move mode
simply by moving on the menu bar and activating a menu by clicking with the
left mouse button.
In drawing mode you can make all the operations that can modify the page.
To select the drawing mode you can use the TOOLS menu, the PICTURES menu or you
can press the right mouse button during move mode to re-activate the last
tool you utilized (shown below the word TOOLS in the top-left corner).

2.3 Pull-Down Menus

Menus allow to select various functions.
Inside menus you can also set various parameters, load and save files and
so on.
Using pull-down menus shouldn't present any difficulties, in that they are
utilized by almost every modern and professional software.

2.4 DISK Menus

We'll only take a close look at the DISK menu, used for saving, loading and
deleting files.
The disk menu allows you to select the active drive as well as the current
directory for every kind of file ( almost every kind of file, in ALADIN, has
its own disk menu, holding the last drive, directory and filename used).
You can save or load a file by simply double-clicking its name, or by
selecting the appropriate action in the last row of a disk menu.
The PATH item is active only under MSX DOS 2.x and it allows you to type in a path.
You can also create new directories for your files.
If a disk error is detected, you will be notified and the disk operation
will be aborted.


--- end of chapter ---

CHAPTER 3 - TOOLS

3.1 Drawing tools

Drawing TOOLS are very similar to those found in DYNAMIC PUBLISHER or 
MSX PAINT and allow to draw points, lines, boxes, circles, ellipses; you can
paint areas with solid colors, with patterns or pictures.
The TOOLS menu is divided in two sub-menus with the following items :

MORE ...          - go to the second sub-menu
POINT             - draw a point 
SPRAY             - draw by the airbrush  
PAINT             - fill an area
FREEHAND          - draw  a freehand line
LINE              -   "   a straight line
LINES             -   "   connected straight lines
RAYS              -   "   rays
BOX               -   "   boxes
BOXFILL           -   "   filled boxes
CIRCLE            -   "   circles
ELLIPSE           -   "   ellipses
FILLED CIRCLE     -   "   filled circles
FILLED ELLIPSE    -   "   filled ellipses
CONC.CIRCLE       -   "   concentric circles
CONC.ELLIPSE      -   "   concentric ellipses
CONC.FILL.CIR     -   "   concentric filled circles
CONC.FILL.ELL.    -   "   concentric filled ellipses


LESS              - go back to the first sub-menu 
NEW COLUMNS       - draw text columns
RESIZE COLUMN     - modify the active column
MOVE COLUMN       - move the active column
MOVE & COPY COL.  - move and copy the cont. of the active column
BUS. GRAPHICS     - draw business graphics
XY GRAPHICS       - draw xy graphics
ARRAY             - draw grids
ZOOM              - page zoom !
REMAP COLOURS     - remap colours !

Airbrush size, fill mode, type and values of graphics, grids size and
color mapping, can be set up int he OPTIONS menu.


When use are using a TOOLS item, you will be in drawing mode. Here you can
change the logic operation, the active column and the drawing color.
To move inside the page you have two possibilities:
you can press the CODE key together with a cursor key to move about a
quarter-page, or you can move the cross-cursor near the borders of the drawing
area which will begin to scroll. To stop the scrolling you must move away from
the border .
Note that during column operation you must keep the cursor moving against the
border to the page scrolled.

--- end of chapter ---

CHAPTER 4 - The OPTIONS menu

4.1 COLORS

The COLORS sub-menu allows you to modify colours and to set parameters for the
REMAP COLOURS function.
The first line selects the active colour, while the subsequent four can modify
color components.
The last line gives access to another sub-menu by which you can choose how to
remap colours. You can change a given colour either into another colour or
into a pattern or a picture.

4.2 LOG.OP.

The LOG.OP. sub-menu allows you to select one of the following logic operations:
IMP, AND, OR, XOR. The logic operation can be changed while in drawing mode by
pressing the 'O' key.

4.3 PAGE

The PAGE sub-menu allows you to save or load the page (in ALADIN's or in DYNAMIC's
format), and clear or invert it.
The main option here is 'GLOBAL', which allows you to work directly on the
whole page, by a condensed view ( about 25% of the original page). In this
mode, you have the area around the cursor displayed on the right side of the
screen in a 1:1 scale, while in the middle you have the whole page condensed.
On the left there is a menu with various items, similar to TOOLS, TEXT and
PICTURES menus. At the bottom of the menu, there is the possibility to choose
type viewing mode: NORMAL (IMP), OR (to mainly show black points) or AND (to
mainly show white points).

4.4 GRAPHICS

By the GRAPHICS sub-menu you can set up various parameters of the business
and xy graphics. You can choose the value of points, how many points
(up to 16), measuring unit, graph type (2D, 3D, lines, points), axis yes/no,
the colour of the graph; furthermore you can sort the values, you can
invert them etc.
Graphs are then scaled to the size you choose when you display them on the
page, so we suggest you to do many experiments with various parameters to 
find optimal values.

4.5 ARRAY and SPRAY

These two menus allow you to set up tables and airbrush characteristics,
such as the number of the tables' rows and columns, and the number points and
radius of the airbrush.

4.6 PAINT MODE

This menu allows you to choose the painting mode.
You can choose whether to show area borders or not, what color, picture or 
pattern to use to fill. You can edit, load or save pattern.
The PAGE ALIGN switch aligns the pattern to the page border or to the border of
the area you are filling (try to fill a circle with this switch off).

4.6.1 PATTERN EDITOR

The pattern editor is very simple to use.
On the top of the screen there are the sixteen available patterns, in the lower
left corner there is the editing grid showing the enlarged pattern, in the lower
right corner there are two boxes with two arrows between them.
The left box shows the pattern currently being edited (1:1 scale), while the
right box shows the unmodified pattern. The two arrows copy one pattern
into the other in the indicated direction.
In the middle of the screen there are colors and options.
Only one note about the MONO option, allowing to draw with the selected colour
in the same way as in the DYNAMIC zoom mode, that is if you click on a colored
pixel it turns to white, while if you click on a white pixel it turn to the
selected colour.
The big box on the right shows the pattern repeated, to check if opposite
borders are coherent. The update the box, you click on the arrow shown
among the options.

4.7 FONT

The FONT menu allows you to load or save a font in both ALADIN's and DYNAMIC's
format ( they are different because ALADIN uses color fonts).
You can show the active font, you can edit it (in a way similar to the pattern
editor), and you can fix the width of the font (no proportional). The width
of the first character (ASCII code 0) is assumed by all other characters.

4.7.1 FONT EDITOR

The font editor is very similar to the pattern editor.
All 256 ascii characters are shown on-screen, and also the character being
edited, the old one, the copying arrows, the colors and the editing grid
are shown.
Around the grid there are three indicators: the right one shows the height
of the character, the left one shows where to underline and the lower one
shows the width.
The width is the only per-character attribute, all other parameters are
common to all ascii set.
When in the FONT EDITOR, you can press a key to select the corresponding
character. Some keys are not available because they are always have special
functions ( e.g. SPACE BAR or DEL ).

4.8 PRINTER

The PRINTER menu allows to set up and execute the paper output.
You can choose how to print: black and white, grey scale or color (if
your printer is capable); you can print in PORTrait mode (A4 page) or
in LANDscape mode (A5 page), you can set the printing density (low, middle, high),
you can choose the printing threshold to print in black and white (you have
four possibilities to try), you can enable the paper gap adjust (a micro-linefeed
trying to avoid overlapping rows on very thin paper).
The SET COLOURS allows you to select what colour to print for a given screen 
colour (if you printer has YMCK color composition capability).
The MATCH SCREEN option modifies screen colours to match printer colours
you set up.

4.9 UNDO/REDO

This function is only available to who has installed it (memory permitting).
It changes the active page with the other saved before an operation and
vice-versa. This feature is useful to verify if the modifications are right
or not and to correct them.


--- end of chapter ---

CHAPTER 5 - The PICTURES menu

5.1 GET PIC

GET PIC allows you to take a picture from the page (max. 240 x 180 points) and
to put it in another area of the page, to resize it, to mirror it, to map it
on a flag or on a cylinder, to reverse it, and so on. When you have taken the
picture, the PUT PIC function will start so you can put the picture where you
want in the page.

5.2 PUT PIC

The PUT PIC menu allows you to choose how to put the pictures in the page, in
the normal way, or with some other method like SHEAR, CYLINDER, FLAG and
you can also resize the picture.

5.3 MIRROR and REVERSE

The MIRROR and REVERSE functions allow you to flip the picture
(left-right or top-down) and to reverse colors in the picture. They are
completely reversible if applied in the correct way.

5.4 LOAD and SAVE PIC and STP

These four functions allow you to LOAD and SAVE pictures in the ALADIN format
(APC crunched) or in the STP format (used by the DYNAMIC and by a lot of other
programs).

5.5 SHOW PIC

This function allows you to see the picture that you have taken.
The picture will be shown in low resolution.

5.6 TRASP. and OR-SIZE

These two gadgets allow you to choose the transparency and the OR operator when
you resize a picture.
The transparency option works with the functions in the PUT PIC menu : the areas
of the picture having color zero, do not change the page.
The OR operator is useful when you want to resize a picture but you don't want
to lose a part of the borders. But in this way the picture can be like a "bold"
character.
 
--- end of chapter ---

CHAPTER 6 - The TEXT menu

6.1 TEXT

The TEXT sub-menu allows you to edit a text, to load and save it, to append
another text to it, to clear the text buffer and to set the continuous loading.
The continuous loading is very useful when you want to load a text that is
longer that 254 lines or than 16Kb.
If you set this flag you can load a text, put it in the columns and print it,
or save the page, and then you can clear the lines that you have used.
Now when you select LOAD, the text will be loaded from the point where it was
interrupted, allowing the use of long files without splitting them in more
parts.

6.2 COLUMNS

The COLUMNS sub-menu allows you to set all the flag of the columns.
It's possible to change the active column, to delete it, to set the
justification of the text in that column (left, right, center and justified),
you can set the local interline of the column, the color of the text and the
background (the four colors and the transparency), you can select to clear the
column or not (useful with the transparency), you can set the font of the column
and choose if the font used is the global one, the local one or the font of the
previous column (if you haven't enough memory you can choose only local or previous).
It's possible to make all the columns like the active one with MAKE UNIFORM.

6.3 SHOW COLUMNS, INTERLINE and CLEAR COLUMNS

SHOW COLUMNS allows you to choose if you want to see only the active column,
all the columns or none of them. INTERLINE sets the global interline of the text,
and CLEAR COLUMNS clear the contents of the columns on the page (useful before
putting the text on the page).

6.4 TEXT TO COL

The TEXT TO COL sub-menu allows you to put the text into the columns and to
choose the start and the end columns in which to put the text.

6.5 LAYOUT

The LAYOUT sub-menu allows you to save and load the columns (only the position
and the flags, not the text) to help you if you want to make repetitive pages
like a magazine.

6.6 The TEXT EDITOR

The TEXT EDITOR allows you to edit or to correct the texts that will be put
into the columns.
This TEXT EDITOR handles the attributes (like bold, underline, italic, reverse,
double width) of the text, but allows also to write color texts or to change
the justification (left, right, center or justified), or to change the order
in which the text will be written into the columns.
There are functions to handle blocks, to go up and down in the text, and so on.
These are the commands available :

<ESC>+ n (n= 1..3)                  - choose color number n
<ESC>+ 0                            - use default color
<ESC>+ U                            - underline
<ESC>+ B                            - bold
<ESC>+ D                            - double width
<ESC>+ R                            - reverse
<ESC>+ I                            - underline
<ESC>+ N                            - clear attributes
<CTRL>+U                            - takes the attributes from the char.
<CTRL>+Q                            - end of the editing
<CTRL>+G                            - go to line
<CTRL>+T                            - page up
<CTRL>+C                            - page down
<CTRL>+B                            - start of the block
<CTRL>+J                            - end of the block
<CTRL>+D                            - duplicates block
<CTRL>+Z                            - clear block (Zap)
<CTRL>+P+               
         n                          - go to column n
         <RET>                      - go to the next column
         J                          - justified
         C                          - center
         L                          - left
         R                          - right
         D                          - default


--- end of chapter ---

CHAPTER 7 - The SYSTEM menu

7.1 Clock adjusting

The first sub-menu allows you to see and set the current time and date.
The changes are saved into the clock ram.

7.2 SETTINGS

The SETTINGS sub-menu allows you to set all the parameters of the system.
You can modify the ADJUST of the screen, you can choose between 50 and 60Hz,
you can set or not the interlace of the screen and the high resolution.
You can load and save the settings of the system (if you save them with the
DEFAULT.ALS file name they will be loaded when the program starts) and you
can load the driver for your printer.
If you don't find then correct driver, you can write to us and we will make
the driver for your printer.

7.3 DISK

The DISK sub-menu allows you to see the directory of the active disk, or you
can load or save a STP directly into or from the active page.
It's possible to load and save pictures in the SC6 format or you can convert
pictures from the formats SC8,SC5 and SC7, selecting the darkness, the kind
of the conversion (black and white or gray scale), the brightness, and so on.

7.4 ABOUT

The ABOUT sub-menus shows you the version of the program and some informations
about the program itself and the authors.

--- end of chapter ---

CHAPTER 8 - The EXTRAS menu

8.1 What are the EXTRAS ?

EXTRAS are little programs that can be installed (if you have enough memory)
into the program.
Five EXTRAS can be installed into the program.
The installations and the removals of the EXTRAS are made with the LIFO
technique, or better Last In First Out , it matters that if you want to remove
the first EXTRAS that you have installed you have to remove all the other
before.

8.2 INSTALL and REMOVE LAST EXTRAS

With the INSTALL function you can select an EXTRA and you can install it.
With the REMOVE function you remove the last EXTRA installed.
The installation and the removing of an EXTRA are made by the EXTRA itself and
not by the program, to allow the maximum flexibility.

8.3 EXTRAS developing

EXTRAS can be made by other software houses, too.
ALADIN SOFTWARE is going to produce some particular EXTRAS like a
calculator, an advanced module to draw graphics, new input modules (like SR?,
GE5, SCC and S12, and so on), a module to use the LAYERS, and much more.
Some EXTRAS will be released in the PD circuit, and other will be sold.

--- end of chapter

CHAPTER 9 - Tricks and practical examples

9.1 The PAINT function

The PAINT function is very powerful, because with it you can fill an area with
a color, a picture or a pattern, but you have to pay a particular attention in
it's use.
If you fill an area with a picture or a pattern, you will probably see only
few lines filled and the error "STACK OVERFLOW" on the screen, or better the
program seems stopped, or can make errors in the filling of the area.
To stop the PAINT function you have to press the ESC key while the function is
running.
If the pattern or the picture use only 2 or 3 colors, you can fill the area
with the color that is not used and refill the area with the picture or the
pattern. The only thing that you have to check is that the color that you use
when you fill the area has to be different from the color of the border.
This is necessary because the routine that fills the area can have some
problems if the background color of the area is also in the pattern or in the
picture.
Recursive situations can be created and the program will turn around in the 
same little area.
Filling with a single color has no problems.
If the program seems stopped during the PAINT option, you have to consider that
the function works with the full page, so it probably is filling an area that
is not shown on the screen.

9.2 The REMAP COLOURS function

The REMAP COLOURS function can be used with the PAINT function to obtain some
interesting effects, or to change the colors of a bad converted picture.
This function is very slow if you use pattern or picture because it has to
calculate the relative position of the point in the page, and this will slow
down the operation.

9.3 Importing pictures from other formats (PIC,SCC,S12,GE5, and so on)

ALADIN converts only the pictures into the SC? formats from 5 to 8.
To read other formats you first have to convert them.
To read the PIC format you have simply to rename it in SC8.
The SCC and S12 formats have to be converted into SC8, and the formats SR?
have to be converted into the equivalent SC? with the PD utilities.

--- end of chapter ---

CHAPTER 10 - Assistance, Advice and Updates

10.1 Technical assistance and advice

If you want to receive the technical assistance you have to be a registered user.
To be a registered user you have to send the card into the envelope that you
find with the program.
For every problem, information, new versions, you can write in english in
italian or in spanish languages at this address :

ALADIN SOFTWARE
[address removed]
Italy

10.2 Updates

All the new versions (with the correction of the bugs or little modifications)
that have the same first number (1.1, 1.2, 1.3 and so on) can be obtained from
us by paying only the service.
The true new versions (2.0 and more) will be available for registered users at
discounted price.

10.3 ALADIN Magazine

Every six months we will send a newsletter to all the registered users.
This newsletter will contain some tricks, informations, news, and so on.
You can also find all the versions of the registered EXTRAS and the number of
the BBS that supports ALADIN (only the legal support ones).
You can find the address of all the people that sells the products of ALADIN
SOFTWARE.
The newsletter is free and it will be published in English.

10.4 Developing EXTRAS and software that interacts with ALADIN

If some programmer wants to produce programs that can interact with ALADIN,
or needs technical informations to produce the EXTRAS he can contact us and we
will give him all the informations that he needs.
The EXTRAS produced by other software house can be approved by the seal
"EXTRA QUALITY".
If a programmer wants the seal on his EXTRA, he can send it to us and we will
check and seal it.

10.5 Collaborations

ALADIN SOFTWARE is searching for people who want to collaborate with us to
develop professional programs for the MSX market.
We are also searching for demo or game programmers, and we can sell
the program for you.
The ALADIN SOFTWARE products are sold and assisted all over Europe.

10.6 ALADIN and the BBS

We are taking some contacts in Italy and in the rest of Europe to open some
areas dedicated to ALADIN on some BBS. The number of the BBS will be published
on the newsletter.
On these BBS you can find all the PD EXTRAS, the new versions of the program,
tricks and you can leave messages for us.
If a SYSOP is interested to open an official ALADIN area in his BBS he can call
us, and we will send him all the material to put on line.

--- end of chapter ---

APPENDIX A - Useful keystrokes

SPACE BAR or  LEFT MOUSE KEY               - choose and draw

DEL or RIGHT MOUSE KEY                     - exit from the options

ESC                                        - exit from PAINT function

SHIFT + CURSOR KEYS                        - multiply movements by 10

CTRL + CURSOR KEYS                         - move only 1 pixel a time 

CODE + CURSOR KEYS (only in drawing mode)  - goes to the selected page quarter

A (only in drawing mode)                   - changes the active column

C (only in drawing mode)                   - changes the active color

O (only in drawing mode)                   - changes the active op. log.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Ahhh! at last you have finished this hard job: congratulations!!
