MajiKazo User's Manual
(Rev.2011)
***

HOW TO PLAY

Help Flush, the cleaner wizard, to face 24 different rooms plenty of dangerous
enemies!

In order to clean a room you'll have to beat all enemies appearing from special
blocks, the generators.  Generator blocks will eventually be empty and the room
clear.  Find 4 hidden keys in the chests spread on the room and make your way to
the exit door: if you clean the room before you reach the opened door your score
will be noticeably increased, which will make your mission much easier.

Besides chests, you'll find lots of boxes (breakable blocks) in the rooms.  They
may contain different SPELLS and ITEMS that will be very helpful.

Beware of the clock!  When time reaches ZERO you'll lose 1 magic life.  You can
also lose 1 magic life when any creature (or its shot) touches you.  The game is
over when you run out of magic lives.

***

THE CAST

Flush. Novice wizard. He works in a magical cleaning service. Yep, that's you.

Lil'legs. Magically overgrown spiders. Weak, slow enemies. They become faster
later on.

Bluemood. Walking empty armors. Lots of them.

Sheeet. They float over blocks. Approaching from everywhere.
 
Spark. Beware their exploding fires. 

Lemonface. Fast angry mummies. Run for your life!

Greyelf. Fast and floating enemies. Double danger.

Doppelganger. You'd better avoid it unless you get 3 "starpow".

***

SPELLS

Spell shots can open chests and boxes. They can also beat certain enemies and
neutralize their shots as well.Their effect lasts until you exit the current
room or until you lose one of your magic lives.You must use different spells to
vanish enemies...

- GREEN SPELL: Default magic when you enter a new room or after being touched.
  You can only defeat LIL'LEGS with it, because it's the weakest enemy (almost
  any spell affects it).

- BLUE SPELL: Use it to finish BLUEMOOD

- RED SPELL: You can destroy SPARK with it. It's an explosive spell that opens
  all chests and boxes  around.  

- WHITE SPELL: Use it to eliminate SHEEET. 

- YELLOW SPELL: You can beat LEMONFACE with it.  

- GREY SPELL (bolt): It just freezes temporally any enemy but GREYELF, which is
  destroyed.

***

ITEMS

These are the different ITEMS you may find:

- YEN (coin bag): It increases your score 1000 points. Every 16384 points you'll
  get an extra life. 

- HITHAT (magic hat): Protects you from one unique enemy attack. If you lose
  your hat, you can try to find another one by checking boxes. 

- STARPOW: If you get three of them, you'll get an special power that can beat
  ANY enemy. Its effect lasts as long as any spell.

- HOURGLASS: It stops the time counter, temporarily freezing all enemies,
  although they will still hurt if you touch them.

- REBOOT (winged boots): They will increase your speed if you wear them. Its
  effect lasts as long as any spell.  

- CANDLELIGHT: It reveals the content of all closed boxes containing items.

- TRAP: Watch out! It's a harmful spider's web that will immobilize you for a
  few seconds, making you vulnerable to enemy attacks.

  
Every four rooms, you'll find a BONUS ROOM where you have a few seconds to open
just one of the boxes in the room and get an ITEM.  If you're lucky and you find
an HOURGLASS, you'll have time enough to open all boxes!

***

CONTROLS

This game is designed for just one single player.  Use keyboard or a joystick
connected to any port.

Move:    <CURSORS>/<JOYSTICK> 
Attack:  <SPACE>/<A BUTTON> 
Pause:   <STOP>

***

TIPS

- Think for a little while before changing to a new colour spell.  Maybe you'll
  need to change the colour of your magic several times.  Be smart: don't run
  out of items too soon.

- Keep in mind that GREY spell (bolt) is kind of weird.

- Special "starpow" shoot is very powerful.  It can make any room easy to
  clean... but, you know, Doppelgangers show up just in certain rooms.  If you
  want to beat them, you'll have to decide when is worth completing the 3
  "starpow".

- Sometimes things are NOT what they seem to be: when you think there's no way
  to get to somewhere, just cast your spells against unbreakable blocks (they
  could be cracked so they'd be breakable actually)

- There's no need to break completely the blocks to reveal what's inside them.
  Just cast one spell against a block and take a look... then decide if you want
  to cast a second one to destroy it.  Keeping some blocks undone may help.

***

XTRA STUFF

If your MSX computer is equipped with a VDP9938 or higher you'll be able to
activate the following features by pressing these keys while loading the game:

<GRAPH> The real MSX1 palette will be emulated.  <SELECT> To force 60 Hz (NTSC).

Notes about MUSIC:

- Same speed at 50/60 Hz
- Complete PSG OST and sound FX
- Enhanced sound if you use FMPAC together with the game or your MSX machine
  includes internal OPL chip

***

MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS

MSX with 8k RAM

***

STAFF

Code.... Armando Perez (aka Ramones) 
Pixel... Miguel Angel Fernandez (aka Sutchan) 
Sound... Carlo Bandini

Thanks to our friends and relatives for their support.

Enjoy the game!

2006-2008 LEMONIZE