* SELENIAK *

Issue 1 - MSXdev '04 release

INSTRUCTION MANUAL


MOON RANGER

Erika Seleniak, the cutest astronaut girl of the galaxy, has been rocketed to the moon to defeat the hosts of alien creatures sent by the infamous Ciggy Starlust.


STAB TO START

This game has been designed to be burnt in an 8KB ROM device and to be run from a standard cartridge mapping the ROM to address #4000 (page 1). Many alternative media, means & utilities exist that can correctly run this ROM image, but please read the file WARNING.TXT for important notes.

Press fire in any control device whilst in the game title screen to start. The option selection menu is brought. Using the control device which you triggered, choose the number of players (rangers), assign a unique in-game control device to either player and, if you have an MSX2 or higher, select the video system which suits best your display device. Although the program adapts itself to either system, NTSC is *strongly* recommended.


PLAY THE GAME

Move Seleniak's ranger across the screen, shooting up aliens by pressing fire button. You are required to shoot down 32 aliens to clear each round.


THE CONTROLS

The ranger can be controlled by either keyboard (cursor keys & space/shift/control) or by joystick plugged to any port.

Up, down, left, right: Move ranger across the moon space
Any fire button: Shoot


STATUS & SKORING

On screen information shows current player(s) skore(s) and moon skore at the top of the screen.

Remaining lives are shown below 1UP's score.

Round number is shown below 2UP's score as alien icons. Sets of 4 rounds are represented as a crown with the total number beneath it.

Shooting aliens down add 50, 100, 150 or 200 pts.

A bonus ranger is granted at 10,000 pts.


CREDITS

Program coding and audiovisuals by Madonna Mark Two.

(C) 2004 Futuremare / Guzuta Raster Leisure / Madonna Mark 2
All Rights Reserved
