* SINK KING *

Issue 3X - MSXdev '04 release

INSTRUCTION MANUAL


WASHING TIME

Fierce Brushnan, the bravest washing brush of the United Sinkdom -with licence to rinse-, has been given the important mission of washing all the utensils of the world's eight most renowned kitchens. It has been reported that Halt Cherry, the infamous arch-enemy of Brushnan, has sabotaged the kitchens with dangerous poison carafes.


STAB TO START

This game has been designed to be burnt in an 8KB ROM device and to be run from a standard cartridge mapping the ROM to address #4000 (page 1). Many alternative media, means & utilities exist that can correctly run this ROM image, but please read the file WARNING.TXT for important notes about this issue.

Once the initial hardware diagnostics and notices have been performed, press fire in any control device whilst in the game title screen or the demo game to start. The option selection menu is brought. Using the control device which you triggered, choose the number of players (washers), assign a unique in-game control device to either player and, if you have an MSX2 or higher, select the video system which suits best your display device. Although the program adapts itself to either system, NTSC is *strongly* recommended.


PLAY THE GAME

Move Brushnan across the screen, washing the kitchen utensils by rubbing them with fire button pressed. Pick soap bottles to replenish your soap reserves, food for extra score and.. poison carafes if you don't want to lose your precious soap! You are required to wash 32 utensils to clear each round.


THE CONTROLS

Brushnan can be controlled by either keyboard (cursor keys & space/shift/control) or by joystick plugged to any port.

Up, down, left, right: Move Brushnan across the sink
Any fire button: Rub
STOP key: Pause
ESC key: Abort


STATUS & SKORING

On screen information shows current player(s) skore(s) and king skore at the top of the screen.

Remaining lives are shown at the bottom left of the screen.

Remaining soap is shown on the "soapometer" at the bottom center of the screen.

Round number is shown at the bottom right of the screen as fork-and-knife icons. Sets of 4 rounds are represented as a crown with the total number beneath it.

Green soap bottles add 25% soap, blue 50% and red 100%. The more soap it gives, the more pixels it moves!

Washed utensils add 50 pts. Food adds 200, 400, 800 or 1600 pts. Soap bottles add 100 pts.

There is a bonus for remaining soap after clearing each round.

A bonus Brushnan is granted at 30,000 pts.


HINTS & TIPS

- Soap decreases with time even if you don't rub. Hurry up!
- Only utensils must be washed. Don't waste soap rubbing food or soap bottles!
- Don't get too much close to the left edge to avoid disgusting surprises.
- Soap bottles should be your 1st priority.
- Try to remain as close to the center of the screen as possible.
- When there are few utensils left to wash, gather as much soap as possible.


INSPIRATION & CREDITS

This game is inspired on "Fast Food" for the Atari 2600 VCS (BURP!).
Program coding and audiovisuals by Madonna Mark Two.

(C) 2004 Futuremare / Guzuta Raster Leisure / Madonna Mark 2
All Rights Reserved
